India’s Environment Ministry has almost halved the time it takes to clear projects, cheering companies hit by the pandemic and worrying green activists concerned the increased pace may come at a cost. It took an average of 84 days to clear a project in 2021, compared with 162 days the year before, according to data shared by the ministry. That’s a result of cutting down needless processes and setting timelines for assessment panels, according to Rameshwar Prasad Gupta, the top bureaucrat in the ministry who took charge last year.

Singapore’s home price growth slowed in the second quarter after virus restrictions deterred new launches and limited the number of people who could view apartments. Private property values rose 0.8% from the previous quarter, according to Urban Redevelopment Authority data released on Friday. That’s lower than the 0.9% flash estimates and less than the 3.3% growth in the first quarter. Enjoying Bloomberg Wealth? To read more articles based on your personal financial goals, answer these 3 questions that will tailor your reading experience. It’s the first time that home value has slowed in five quarters. Singapore’s property market has been sizzling, with both prices of public and luxury homes hitting records. But since May, sales have eased after the government imposed a month-long lockdown-like order that limited apartment viewings. After curbs were relaxed in June, analysts had expected demand to pick up again. But a fresh round of restrictions imposed this week is set to further dampen the frenzy. “Private residential property prices are expected to continue to expand, but at a modest pace, which will lead to a 5% to 8% yoy growth for the whole of this year,” said Nicholas Mak, head of research and consultancy at APAC Realty Ltd. “The good news from this slower price growth is that the policy risk of more cooling measures is deflated.”

What keeps breaking the buck, is engaged in financial transformation, and keeps on growing?The stablecoin market. The value of the top four stablecoins has surpassed $100 billion in the space of four years, and the coins — which trade on a blockchain but attempt to maintain a one-for-one peg with fiat currencies — now form an integral part of the crypto ecosystem, often acting as the collateral behind DeFi and enabling transfers between crypto exchanges. But as the market grows, it’s also coming under increased scrutiny in part because it’s still unclear how stablecoin issuers are maintaining their pegs. Most of the criticism has so far been directed at Tether, which claims that its tokens are 100% backed by reserves, though it has released few details of what those are exactly. If Tether’s account of its reserves is accurate, then it’s  now a massive player in the commercial paper market which has historically been dominated by large investors such as regulated money market funds (MMFs). This is the reason why JPMorgan Chase & Co. strategist Josh Younger describes stablecoins as being “the primary interaction point between the crypto-native and traditional financial systems through their reserve funds.” The suggestion is that if stablecoins were to experience disruption, it could reverberate into financial markets through the commercial paper channel, again depending on what issuers hold:  The definition of shadow banks is notoriously fuzzy, but it typically includes non-regulated entities engaged in maturity or liquidity transformation — that is securing short-term funds to invest in longer-term assets, or converting illiquid assets into more easily spendable money. On that basis, stablecoins could well be taking questionable reserve assets and converting them into stable digital cash.This isn’t a problem as long as the stablecoin market avoids huge bouts of redemptions. So far that has been the case, even in the sharp crypto sell-off in May. That’s somewhat surprising given that — by Younger’s calculations — the top four coins have ‘broken the buck’ (i.e. dipped below their peg) with some regularity; having spent the past 30% to 40% of the past three months trading below par. But an unexpected disruption risks causing problems for exchanges and issuers which provide the coins. That in turn could feed into the traditional financial system through the key funding market which is commercial paper, and again raises questions of  financial stability given that stablecoin issuers are unregulated. That’s one reason why officials at the Federal Reserve have been talking about stablecoins, with Bank of Boston President Eric Rosengren recently keying in on their resemblance to traditional “but maybe riskier” prime money market funds.Back to Younger:

Malaysia has confirmed one case of an individual being injected with an empty syringe in its national vaccination rollout, categorizing it as a human error. The government further identified two cases where individuals were given an extra dose of the Coronavirus vaccine due to confusion, said Science, Technology, and Innovation Minister Khairy Jamaluddin in a briefing Friday.

Xponential Fitness Inc., the franchise owner of boutique fitness brands including Club Pilates and CycleBar, downsized its initial public offering and priced it below a marketed range to raise $120 million. The Irvine, California-based company sold 10 million shares on Thursday for $12 each, according to a statement. Xponential earlier offered 13.3 million shares for $14 to $16.

Japan’s Olympics organizers reported a record number of new daily coronavirus infections linked to the Games, including three athletes, bringing the total to 110 just hours before the opening ceremony is scheduled to start in a nearly empty stadium in Tokyo. Nineteen new Covid-19 cases connected to the event were reported on Friday, the highest daily figure since organizers started disclosing the data this month. One of the infected athletes is residing in the Olympic Village.

India’s Environment Ministry has almost halved the time it takes to clear projects, cheering companies hit by the pandemic and worrying green activists concerned the increased pace may come at a cost. It took an average of 84 days to clear a project in 2021, compared with 162 days the year before, according to data shared by the ministry. That’s a result of cutting down needless processes and setting timelines for assessment panels, according to Rameshwar Prasad Gupta, the top bureaucrat in the ministry who took charge last year.

A little-known property company has been adding to its money-losing wager on China Evergrande Group, amassing bond holdings with a face value of $1 billion despite growing fears of a default. Asia Orient Holdings Ltd., led by secretive tycoon Poon Jing, disclosed its position in a Hong Kong exchange filing this week showing it and group firms had spent at least $230 million on Evergrande debt over the past year. Asia Orient added to holdings in the midst of a deep market selloff on June 9, while an affiliate made purchases about a week later.

Happy Friday, Europe. Here’s the latest news and analysis from Bloomberg Economics to take you through to the weekend:

Pfizer Inc.’s Covid-19 vaccine was just 39% effective in keeping people from getting infected by the contagious delta variant in Israel in recent weeks, according to the country’s health ministry, but provided a strong shield against hospitalization and more severe forms of the virus. The vaccine provided 88% protection against hospitalization and 91.4% against severe illness for an unspecified number of people studied between June 20 and July 17, according to a report Thursday from the health ministry.

The Philippines has reimposed some restrictions in the capital, including barring children ages 5 and above outdoors anew, after it confirmed local transmission of the coronavirus’ delta variant. The Manila capital region, which accounts for about a third of the nation’s economy, will remain under general community quarantine but with heightened restrictions until July 31, presidential spokesman Harry Roque said in a statement Friday.

A former trader at Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit told a federal jury in Chicago that he learned how to manipulate the price of precious metals from two more senior traders in the bank’s New York office, John Pacilio and Edward Bases. Harnaik Lakhan said he used Merrill’s internal computer system to watch Pacilio and Bases, who are on trial for alleged spoofing, issue buy and sell orders they didn’t intend to be filled, pushing prices up or down to make it profitable for orders they wanted to execute. Lakhan, who agreed to cooperate with the government to avoid prosecution, said he began using the same techniques from his office in London.

Colony Capital founder and Trump ally Thomas J. Barrack Jr. is to appear before a federal magistrate judge in Los Angeles Friday to learn whether he will win his release, after she ordered him held on illegal lobbying charges pending a further review of a proposed bail package. Barrack, 74, was arrested Tuesday at an office park in Sylmar, California, while his Colony Capital associate Matthew Grimes, 27, of Aspen, Colorado, has also been in a federal lockup in Los Angeles after he was arrested in Santa Monica.

Peter Rea signed a sponsorship deal with Swiss sports brand On AG in 2018, after more than a decade coaching runners in Reebok sneakers. “People were like, ‘Wait, who’s On?’” recalled Rea, who trains the ZAP Endurance elite team in North Carolina’s Appalachian mountains. Since the switch, members of his band of Olympic hopefuls have come to embrace the unique look and feel of On’s shoes. “Now, no one asks who they are,” Rea said.

Taiwan will ease some Covid curbs from next week but will stop short of a full-blown opening up over concerns removing restrictions too soon could lead to a resurgence in cases. Premier Su Tseng-chang has approved a decision to downgrade the government’s so-called level-3 alert from Tuesday, Cabinet spokesman Lo Ping-cheng said in a text-messaged statement Friday, without providing further details. The Central Epidemic Command Center is likely to formally announce the move and outline which restrictions will be eased later Friday.

Singapore’s home price growth slowed in the second quarter after virus restrictions deterred new launches and limited the number of people who could view apartments. Private property values rose 0.8% from the previous quarter, according to Urban Redevelopment Authority data released on Friday. That’s lower than the 0.9% flash estimates and less than the 3.3% growth in the first quarter. Enjoying Bloomberg Wealth? To read more articles based on your personal financial goals, answer these 3 questions that will tailor your reading experience. It’s the first time that home value has slowed in five quarters. Singapore’s property market has been sizzling, with both prices of public and luxury homes hitting records. But since May, sales have eased after the government imposed a month-long lockdown-like order that limited apartment viewings. After curbs were relaxed in June, analysts had expected demand to pick up again. But a fresh round of restrictions imposed this week is set to further dampen the frenzy. “Private residential property prices are expected to continue to expand, but at a modest pace, which will lead to a 5% to 8% yoy growth for the whole of this year,” said Nicholas Mak, head of research and consultancy at APAC Realty Ltd. “The good news from this slower price growth is that the policy risk of more cooling measures is deflated.”

What keeps breaking the buck, is engaged in financial transformation, and keeps on growing?The stablecoin market. The value of the top four stablecoins has surpassed $100 billion in the space of four years, and the coins — which trade on a blockchain but attempt to maintain a one-for-one peg with fiat currencies — now form an integral part of the crypto ecosystem, often acting as the collateral behind DeFi and enabling transfers between crypto exchanges. But as the market grows, it’s also coming under increased scrutiny in part because it’s still unclear how stablecoin issuers are maintaining their pegs. Most of the criticism has so far been directed at Tether, which claims that its tokens are 100% backed by reserves, though it has released few details of what those are exactly. If Tether’s account of its reserves is accurate, then it’s  now a massive player in the commercial paper market which has historically been dominated by large investors such as regulated money market funds (MMFs). This is the reason why JPMorgan Chase & Co. strategist Josh Younger describes stablecoins as being “the primary interaction point between the crypto-native and traditional financial systems through their reserve funds.” The suggestion is that if stablecoins were to experience disruption, it could reverberate into financial markets through the commercial paper channel, again depending on what issuers hold:  The definition of shadow banks is notoriously fuzzy, but it typically includes non-regulated entities engaged in maturity or liquidity transformation — that is securing short-term funds to invest in longer-term assets, or converting illiquid assets into more easily spendable money. On that basis, stablecoins could well be taking questionable reserve assets and converting them into stable digital cash.This isn’t a problem as long as the stablecoin market avoids huge bouts of redemptions. So far that has been the case, even in the sharp crypto sell-off in May. That’s somewhat surprising given that — by Younger’s calculations — the top four coins have ‘broken the buck’ (i.e. dipped below their peg) with some regularity; having spent the past 30% to 40% of the past three months trading below par. But an unexpected disruption risks causing problems for exchanges and issuers which provide the coins. That in turn could feed into the traditional financial system through the key funding market which is commercial paper, and again raises questions of  financial stability given that stablecoin issuers are unregulated. That’s one reason why officials at the Federal Reserve have been talking about stablecoins, with Bank of Boston President Eric Rosengren recently keying in on their resemblance to traditional “but maybe riskier” prime money market funds.Back to Younger:

Malaysia has confirmed one case of an individual being injected with an empty syringe in its national vaccination rollout, categorizing it as a human error. The government further identified two cases where individuals were given an extra dose of the Coronavirus vaccine due to confusion, said Science, Technology, and Innovation Minister Khairy Jamaluddin in a briefing Friday.

Xponential Fitness Inc., the franchise owner of boutique fitness brands including Club Pilates and CycleBar, downsized its initial public offering and priced it below a marketed range to raise $120 million. The Irvine, California-based company sold 10 million shares on Thursday for $12 each, according to a statement. Xponential earlier offered 13.3 million shares for $14 to $16.

Japan’s Olympics organizers reported a record number of new daily coronavirus infections linked to the Games, including three athletes, bringing the total to 110 just hours before the opening ceremony is scheduled to start in a nearly empty stadium in Tokyo. Nineteen new Covid-19 cases connected to the event were reported on Friday, the highest daily figure since organizers started disclosing the data this month. One of the infected athletes is residing in the Olympic Village.

India’s Environment Ministry has almost halved the time it takes to clear projects, cheering companies hit by the pandemic and worrying green activists concerned the increased pace may come at a cost. It took an average of 84 days to clear a project in 2021, compared with 162 days the year before, according to data shared by the ministry. That’s a result of cutting down needless processes and setting timelines for assessment panels, according to Rameshwar Prasad Gupta, the top bureaucrat in the ministry who took charge last year.

A little-known property company has been adding to its money-losing wager on China Evergrande Group, amassing bond holdings with a face value of $1 billion despite growing fears of a default. Asia Orient Holdings Ltd., led by secretive tycoon Poon Jing, disclosed its position in a Hong Kong exchange filing this week showing it and group firms had spent at least $230 million on Evergrande debt over the past year. Asia Orient added to holdings in the midst of a deep market selloff on June 9, while an affiliate made purchases about a week later.

Happy Friday, Europe. Here’s the latest news and analysis from Bloomberg Economics to take you through to the weekend:

Pfizer Inc.’s Covid-19 vaccine was just 39% effective in keeping people from getting infected by the contagious delta variant in Israel in recent weeks, according to the country’s health ministry, but provided a strong shield against hospitalization and more severe forms of the virus. The vaccine provided 88% protection against hospitalization and 91.4% against severe illness for an unspecified number of people studied between June 20 and July 17, according to a report Thursday from the health ministry.















































































Happy Friday, Europe. Here’s the latest news and analysis from Bloomberg Economics to take you through to the weekend:

The world’s biggest platinum miners are ramping up plans to build renewable energy plants to free them from power outages that have plagued South Africa for more than a decade and to reduce their carbon footprint. Sibanye Stillwater Ltd., the No. 1 platinum miner, Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. and Anglo American Platinum Ltd. said they plan to scale up solar and wind farms for their own use to cut reliance on state-owned utility Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., some of whose aging coal-fired plants have failed to keep up with electricity demand.

President Joe Biden said he believes the surge in U.S. inflation is temporary and that he has told Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell that he respects the central bank’s independence. Biden said Monday at the White House that recent price increases are “temporary,” countering Republican arguments that the president’s economic spending plans would cause inflation to spiral out of control. But he also emphasized that he wouldn’t interfere with the central bank’s policies: “As I made clear to Chairman Powell of the Federal Reserve when we met recently, the Fed is independent. It should take whatever steps it deems necessary to support a strong and durable economic recovery.”  Biden says "unchecked inflation over the long term would pose a real challenge to our economy" but adds he's "confident that isn't what we're seeing today" pic.twitter.com/FDGUKGBpmc The U.S. saw the largest surge in consumer prices in more than 12 years last month, with a Labor Department gauge rising 5.4% compared to one year ago. The House Republicans’ campaign arm targeted vulnerable Democrats with online ads around the July 4 holiday decrying price increases for “burgers, buns, propane, gas.” A significant portion of the recent inflation is tied to sectors experiencing parts shortages or surging demand stemming from the economy’s reopening, including cars, hospitality and lumber -- a point stressed by Biden in his remarks. Read more: Schumer Sets Deadlines on Infrastructure and Budget Talks  Biden’s speech also comes at a critical juncture in the debate over his $4 trillion economic plan. The bipartisan group authoring a $579 billion infrastructure package is rushing to complete its work before an expected test vote on Wednesday. The deadline is also intended to force Democrats to rally around the $3.5 trillion budget blueprint that contains many of the president’s social spending priorities. “If your primary concern right now is inflation, you should be even more enthusiastic about this plan,” Biden said, arguing that the fiscal boost would help new businesses, increasing competition and driving down prices. Meanwhile, the administration is concerned that stalled vaccination rates in the U.S. could allow variant strains of the coronavirus to spread and hinder the nation’s economic recovery. — With assistance by Mario Parker



















































President Joe Biden said he believes the surge in U.S. inflation is temporary and that he has told Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell that he respects the central bank’s independence. Biden said Monday at the White House that recent price increases are “temporary,” countering Republican arguments that the president’s economic spending plans would cause inflation to spiral out of control. But he also emphasized that he wouldn’t interfere with the central bank’s policies: “As I made clear to Chairman Powell of the Federal Reserve when we met recently, the Fed is independent. It should take whatever steps it deems necessary to support a strong and durable economic recovery.”  Biden says "unchecked inflation over the long term would pose a real challenge to our economy" but adds he's "confident that isn't what we're seeing today" pic.twitter.com/FDGUKGBpmc The U.S. saw the largest surge in consumer prices in more than 12 years last month, with a Labor Department gauge rising 5.4% compared to one year ago. The House Republicans’ campaign arm targeted vulnerable Democrats with online ads around the July 4 holiday decrying price increases for “burgers, buns, propane, gas.” A significant portion of the recent inflation is tied to sectors experiencing parts shortages or surging demand stemming from the economy’s reopening, including cars, hospitality and lumber -- a point stressed by Biden in his remarks. Read more: Schumer Sets Deadlines on Infrastructure and Budget Talks  Biden’s speech also comes at a critical juncture in the debate over his $4 trillion economic plan. The bipartisan group authoring a $579 billion infrastructure package is rushing to complete its work before an expected test vote on Wednesday. The deadline is also intended to force Democrats to rally around the $3.5 trillion budget blueprint that contains many of the president’s social spending priorities. “If your primary concern right now is inflation, you should be even more enthusiastic about this plan,” Biden said, arguing that the fiscal boost would help new businesses, increasing competition and driving down prices. Meanwhile, the administration is concerned that stalled vaccination rates in the U.S. could allow variant strains of the coronavirus to spread and hinder the nation’s economic recovery. — With assistance by Mario Parker

A transgender police officer with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey sued the agency, claiming he was referred to as “it” and subjected to other taunts and discrimination. Michael McConaughey, who has worked as a Port Authority officer since 2013, alleges that his colleagues and supervisors repeatedly referred to him by his former name and delayed allowing him to switch restrooms and locker rooms for more than six months. In October, a colleague referred to him as “it,” a “transvestite” and “whatever it is,” according to the suit, filed Sunday in federal court in Manhattan.

Inter Pipeline Ltd. is evaluating a formal revised C$8.6 billion ($6.7 billion) offer from Brookfield Infrastructure Partners LP to buy Canada’s fourth-largest midstream company after rival suitor Pembina Pipeline Corp. said it wouldn’t raise its own bid for the company. Brookfield agreed last Thursday to lift the cash portion of its offer by 2.6% to C$20 for each Inter Pipeline share in a push to break up a friendly, all-share takeover by Pembina. On Friday, Pembina declined to increase or change its offer of 0.5 of its common shares for all the common shares of Inter Pipeline. Brookfield’s formal revised offer was filed Monday, Breanne Oliver, a spokeswoman for Inter Pipeline, said in an email.

London (AP) -- Mercedes, Formula One and its governing body the FIA issued a joint statement Monday condemning the online racist abuse aimed at Lewis Hamilton. Hamilton was targeted following the Mercedes driver's crash with rival Max Verstappen on the opening lap of Sunday’s British Grand Prix that sent the championship leader hurtling out of the race.

Amathus, Cyprus (AP) -- It’s said that Demetrius the Besieger, a mighty warrior king and one of Alexander the Great’s successors, built this harbor on Cyprus’ southern coast 2,400 years ago to thwart a potential naval invasion from the ruler of Egypt, Ptolemy I, another of Alexander’s heirs. French archaeologists who initially studied the ancient harbor of Amathus believe it to be an incomplete military fortification work, the three piers of which would have accommodated the best of the ancient world’s naval ships, ready to repel an attacking force.

The Philippines Coast Guard said it drove away a Chinese warship in the South China Sea, in another sign of tension between the two nations in the disputed waters. In a statement Monday citing a July 13 report, the Coast Guard said it had sent a verbal challenge to Chinese warship spotted at Marie Louise Bank. The Chinese vessel eventually moved away from the area, the statement said.

Opioid maker Johnson & Johnson and three drug distributors are expected to disclose this week the final terms of a $26 billion settlement for thousands of lawsuits accusing them of fueling a public-health crisis, according to people familiar with the deal.After years of negotiations with five states, the companies are poised to make the announcement Wednesday, according to the people who asked not to be identified discussing closed-door talks. Along with J&J, the proposed settlement includes McKesson Corp., Cardinal Health Inc. and AmerisourceBergen Corp. More than 40 states are likely to sign onto the deal -- others are expected to reject it in favor of moving ahead with existing court cases already set for trial, the people said. The agreement likely removes a major overhang for companies seeking to end legal liabilities from their role in the opioid epidemic, analysts say. McKesson, Cardinal Health and AmerisourceBergen already indicated in regulatory filings they expect to pay $21 billion, and J&J would pay $5 billion. What’s new is each state also has the option to accept just the J&J offer or the combined distributors’ proposal, and the companies will pay bonuses to states for for how many of their local governments sign up, the people said.

Florida Representative Vern Buchanan says he has tested positive for COVID-19 despite being fully vaccinated earlier this year. The top Republican on the Ways and Means subcommittee on trade said in a statement he was tested after experiencing flu-like symptoms and is now quarantining at his home.

Costco Wholesale Corp. and Tiffany and Co. agreed to settle a long-running lawsuit over the warehouse retailer’s sale of “Tiffany” diamond engagement rings. The fabled jewelry store chain first sued Costco in 2013, claiming its trademark had been violated. The parties on Monday told U.S. District Judge Lewis Liman Monday that they had agreed to dismiss the case.

Portland, Ore. (AP) -- The monstrous wildfire burning in Oregon has grown to a third the size of Rhode Island and spreads miles each day, but evacuations and property losses have been minimal compared with much smaller blazes in densely populated areas of California. The fire's jaw-dropping size contrasted with its relatively small impact on people underscores the vastness of the American West and offers a reminder that Oregon, which is larger than Britain, is still a largely rural state, despite being known mostly for its largest city, Portland.

Canberra, Australia (AP) -- Far-right British commentator Katie Hopkins was deported from Australia on Monday after she boasted on social media that she planned to breach the country's quarantine rules. Hopkins traveled to Australia to appear in a reality television program and was in a 14-day mandatory hotel quarantine in Sydney before filming was to start.

Republican Senators Marsha Blackburn, Roger Wicker, and Cynthia Lummis urged the U.S. Olympic Committee to forbid American athletes from using China’s new digital currency at the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics, citing espionage and data-security concerns. “Olympic athletes should be aware that the digital yuan may be used to surveil Chinese citizens and those visiting China on an unprecedented scale, with the hopes that they will maintain digital yuan wallets on their smartphones and continue to use it upon return,” the lawmakers wrote in a letter sent Monday to Susanne Lyons, board chair of the U.S. Olympic Committee.

China’s urbanization rate is set to beat previous international predictions over the next decade, providing an antidote to the country’s shrinking workforce and declining birthrate, an influential Chinese economist said. About 75% of the Chinese population will be living in cities by 2030, up from the current 64%, according to Lu Ming, an economics professor at the Shanghai Jiao Tong University specializing in urban development.

U.S. automakers won’t go back to bloated output and bulging dealer lots, even after the global semiconductor shortage ends, according to the chief executive officer of the nation’s biggest chain of car dealers. “The industry has understood that overproduction and excessive inventories as the old model is not where they want to be,” said Mike Jackson, CEO of AutoNation Inc. “I really think there’s a new strategy going forward.”

South African authorities arrested six people who allegedly instigated a week of rioting that claimed at least 215 lives and have charged them with inciting public violence. One of the six was released on bail, while the other five are in custody pending their bail hearings, acting Minister in the Presidency Khumbudzo Ntshavheni told reporters in the capital, Pretoria, on Monday. The minister declined to name them, saying she didn’t want to jeopardize investigations.

Montpelier, Vt. (AP) -- Ben & Jerry’s said Monday it was going to stop selling its ice cream in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and contested east Jerusalem, saying the sales in the territories sought by the Palestinians are “inconsistent with our values.” The announcement was one of the strongest and highest-profile rebukes by a well-known company of Israel’s policy of settling its citizens on war-won lands. The settlements are widely seen by the international community as illegal and obstacles to peace.

Listen to Odd Lots on Spotify Listen to Odd Lots on Apple Podcasts Joe Weisenthal and Tracy Alloway analyze the weird patterns, the complex issues and the newest market crazes. Join the conversation every Monday and Thursday for interviews with the most interesting minds in finance, economics and markets.

Saudi Arabia and Russia clinched a deal for an OPEC+ production increase by partly submitting to the United Arab Emirates’ demands for a more generous quota. But the compromise still leaves Riyadh and Moscow on top. Of all the adjustments agreed on Sunday to the cartel’s baselines -- the level from which each member’s cuts are measured -- the two largest OPEC+ members awarded themselves the biggest increases.

Senate Republicans in bipartisan talks on a $579 billion infrastructure deal are warning Majority Leader Chuck Schumer that if he goes through with a Wednesday vote to start debate on the plan he won’t have their support and his attempt to enforce a deadline will fail. Maine Senator Susan Collins said there is “no way” the group of 22 Republicans and Democrats can finish pulling together a bill by Wednesday with many issues still outstanding, including how to pay for it.

Fresh signs of a cash crunch at China Evergrande Group sent shares and bonds of the world’s most indebted developer to new lows on Tuesday, stoking fears of broader market contagion. The property giant’s stock tumbled to the lowest level since April 2017, extending its two-day loss to 25%. Several of Evergrande’s local and offshore bonds sank to records, with its dollar note due 2025 falling to as low as 54 cents. Bonds of other junk-rated Chinese borrowers declined, while a gauge of developer shares dropped to a nearly three-year low. The nation’s bank stocks also slumped.

AMC Entertainment Holdings Inc., the world’s largest movie-theater chain, is acquiring two Southern California multiplexes that went out of business because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The cinemas, one in the Grove shopping area in Los Angeles and the other in Glendale, were formerly part of Pacific Theatres Exhibition Corp., the company that operated the ArcLight theater chain. Pacific said in June it would liquidate after pandemic-related losses forced it into Chapter 7 bankruptcy.

GlobalFoundries Inc., a chipmaker owned by an investment arm of the Abu Dhabi government, is sticking with its plan for an initial public offering next year, according to Chief Executive Officer Tom Caulfield.Reports that GlobalFoundries is the subject of a takeover bid by Intel Corp. are speculation, he said.“There’s nothing there in that discussion,” Caulfield said Monday in an interview with Bloomberg Television. Because the chipmaker is moving toward a share sale, “you can expect a lot of speculation to take place,” he said. Intel has studied the feasibility of buying U.S.-based GlobalFoundries, people familiar with the matter said last week, asking not to be identified because deliberations are private. But no formal takeover approach has been made to GlobalFoundries owner Mubadala Investment Co. and the two sides are not engaged in active talks, the people said.

Former U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron showed a “significant lack of judgment” in repeatedly lobbying the government on behalf of the now-collapsed finance firm Greensill Capital, a parliamentary inquiry has found. The Treasury Select Committee called for lobbying rules to be strengthened in the aftermath of the episode, during which Cameron tried to persuade his former colleagues to help the firm gain access to Covid support.

Tencent Holdings Ltd. has agreed to buy the rest of Sumo Group Plc it doesn’t already own, adding to a string of gaming investments by Chinese social media and gaming giant. The British company’s shares jumped the most on record. Asia’s most valuable firm is offering 513 pence per share for Sumo, a 43% premium to the British company’s previous close. On a fully diluted basis, the offer values Sumo at about 919 million pounds ($1.26 billion). Tencent already owns about 8.75% of Sumo, giving the outstanding shares a value of about 803 million pounds.

Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen pushed top U.S. financial regulators to accelerate their consideration of new rules to police so-called stablecoins, a type of cryptocurrency that’s seen rapid recent growth and remains largely unsupervised. “The secretary underscored the need to act quickly to ensure there is an appropriate U.S. regulatory framework in place,” the Treasury Department said Monday in a statement following a meeting of the President’s Working Group on Financial Markets. The group “expects to issue recommendations in the coming months,” according to the statement.

The recent selloff in stocks set to benefit most from an improving economy has gone too far and a reversal is imminent, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. chief global markets strategist Marko Kolanovic. The unwinding of the so-called reflation trade accelerated on Monday with the delta variant of the coronavirus quickly spreading and concerns flaring that the U.S. is reaching peak economic growth. Traders have been piling into growth sectors such as technology that are viewed as safe havens. But Kolanovic sees further gains in those value names that benefit from faster inflation as the global economy recovers from the pandemic.

International monitors are watching Iran’s fast-expanding nuclear program with growing alarm, as Tehran refuses to extend an expired inspections pact and insists the experts must trust that it’s accurately documenting uranium-enrichment activities. Iran claims it’s still preserving data captured by International Atomic Energy Agency monitoring equipment, the agency’s director general, Rafael Mariano Grossi, said in an interview in Rio de Janeiro. But officials won’t give his investigators access to it until Iran concludes stalled talks with world powers to restore a broader 2015 agreement that lifted sanctions.

Billionaire space entrepreneurs like Jeff Bezos, Richard Branson and Elon Musk have raised the public profile and plausibility of commercial space travel in recent years. The hype has helped fuel a wave of funding into startups building the infrastructure to bring the new space race from science fiction to reality. Space-related technology is a $200 billion market that spans companies building products and services to use on Earth, in orbit or for space exploration and colonization missions. Venture capital investment in such companies reached a record $5.5 billion in 2020, according to market research firm PitchBook. The industry is on pace to top that milestone with $3.6 billion raised across 94 deals in the first six months of this year.

The Biden administration is poised to issue new cybersecurity regulations for pipelines and liquefied natural gas facilities in the aftermath of the April hack that temporarily paralyzed the nation’s biggest liquid fuel conduit. The rules, which could be released as early as this week by the Transportation Security Administration, are the second tranche by the agency since the attack on Colonial Pipeline Co.. It represents a further move away from a system that until now had relied on self-reporting and other voluntary measures.

Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer cemented plans for a Wednesday cliff-hanger vote on whether to begin debate on a $579 billion infrastructure plan that does not yet exist. The New York Democrat’s move comes after negotiators failed through the weekend to reach a compromise on the bipartisan measure.

(AP) -- A look at what's happening the world of music as artists announce their touring plans and concert venues plan their reopenings after being shuttered by the pandemic. GAGA FOR BENNETT

The U.S., U.K. and their allies formally attributed the Microsoft Exchange hack to actors affiliated with the Chinese government and accused Beijing’s leadership of a broad array of “malicious cyber activities,” escalating last week’s tensions between the White House and China. The group of nations said Monday that the Chinese government has been the mastermind behind a series of malicious ransomware, data theft and cyber-espionage attacks against public and private entities, including the sprawling Microsoft Exchange hack earlier this year.

The U.S. cannabis industry had eagerly awaited a federal legalization bill that executives, investors and interest groups had hoped would be a panacea for the partisan divide over a hotly contested issue. What they saw last week from Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer left many underwhelmed.

New York City civic groups and City Council members on Monday criticized the Board of Elections for a string of mishaps during the mayoral primaries and called for state reform of the board. “We need to do everything we can to maintain public trust in our election system,” said councilwoman Selvena Brooks-Power of Southeast Queens during a hearing before state Assembly members in Brooklyn.

Sign up for our Middle East newsletter and follow us  @middleeast for news on the region. The de facto ruler of the United Arab Emirates arrived in Saudi Arabia and was greeted by his Saudi counterpart, amid tensions between the two Gulf nations over oil, trade and foreign policy.

Motiva Enterprises LLC is eying the revival of a multibillion-dollar expansion project at its Texas Gulf Coast refinery in 2023 that would produce petrochemicals used to make everything from plastic water bottles to grocery bags. Engineering and excavation work had already been done before the project was halted nearly two years ago. Now, Saudi Aramco’s U.S. refining arm is considering reactivating the expansion, minus an ethane cracker, which it no longer needs, according to people familiar with the plans, who asked not to be identified because the information isn’t public.

London’s Heathrow airport was thronged with travelers Monday as the U.K. eased travel curbs -- but pre-holiday enthusiasm was replaced with anger for some after last-minute rule changes added unexpected complications to their trip. While fully vaccinated tourists headed for the Mediterranean were cheered by the removal of quarantine requirements on their return, people bound for France hit out at a decision late Friday that means they’ll still need to self-isolate.

Bill Ackman will buy a stake in Universal Music Group with his hedge fund rather than his blank-check company after opposition from investors and U.S. regulators. Ackman’s special purpose acquisition company will withdraw its offer for a 10% stake, he said in a letter on Monday. His hedge fund will assume the share purchase agreement, and buy 5% to 10% of the music label, UMG’s owner Vivendi SE said in a separate statement.

Money managers are issuing “poorly drafted” pitches for investment funds meant to combat climate change, with claims that “do not bear scrutiny,” said Britain’s financial-markets regulator as it ordered companies to improve disclosures. The Financial Conduct Authority said in one case, a fund declared a sustainable strategy while containing two “high-carbon emissions” energy companies among its top 10 holdings.

Mexico’s tax chief wants to crack down on key incentives for global automakers to produce in the country, the government’s latest effort to boost revenue by going after large companies. Raquel Buenrostro, the head of Mexico’s tax authority known as SAT, said in an interview her proposal is awaiting approval by the Finance Ministry, and is part of a package of measures to increase tax collection by 1% of gross domestic product next year.

She said she was raped by one of the most powerful men on Wall Street. Now he says she professed her love during a years-long affair -- and that he was later extorted for millions. The private-equity billionaire Leon Black on Monday offered a formal rebuttal -- at times in astonishing detail -- to allegations leveled by a former model from Russia named Guzel Ganieva. Black vigorously denied Ganieva’s allegation that he assaulted her, instead admitting to an affair in a New York state court filing, and saying he used “extremely poor judgment.”

The U.S. Treasury Department and Vietnam’s central bank said they reached an agreement under which Vietnam will allow more flexibility in its currency, easing a dispute in which the U.S. had discussed whether to impose tariffs on the Asian nation. The State Bank of Vietnam “will continue to improve exchange-rate flexibility over time, allowing the Vietnamese dong to move in line with the stage of development of the financial and foreign-exchange markets and with economic fundamentals, while maintaining macroeconomic and financial-market stability,” the bank and U.S. Treasury said Monday in what was billed as a joint statement released by Treasury.

For a fresh perspective on the stories that matter for Australian business and politics, sign up for our weekly newsletter. Half of Australia’s population is back in lockdown after South Australia state joined Victoria and New South Wales in ordering residents to stay at home as the delta variant leaks across the country.

Brooklyn, Mich. (AP) -- Three young men who likely died from carbon monoxide exposure while camping near a country music festival in Michigan were pals who played high school football together. They were identified as Dawson Brown, 20, William Mays Jr., 20, who was known as Richie, and Kole Sova, 19, authorities said.

Nintendo Co. denied that profit margins on its new Switch model will increase when compared with the current version, which costs $50 less. The Kyoto-based video gaming giant said claims that its profit margin from the new device will increase compared with the original Switch are “incorrect,” according to a statement on its Twitter account. The company also added that it has no plans to launch any other model, apart from the one featuring a 7-inch OLED screen scheduled to be released in October.

Indonesian President Joko Widodo’s approval rating fell as the coronavirus continues to tear through the nation, pushing its daily Covid-19 death counts to become the worst in the world. About 59.6% of respondents are satisfied with how he’s handling the pandemic, according to a survey released by Lembaga Survei Indonesia. That compares with 68.9% in December, the survey showed. Those who are dissatisfied with him rose to 37.2% from 28.9%.

Germany’s devastating flood damage has shifted the dynamic in the country’s election campaign, potentially redrawing political lines in the contest to succeed Chancellor Angela Merkel. Images of battered cars piled up in swollen gullies and floodwater surging through sleepy half-timbered villages have shocked German voters. With the authorities looking ill-prepared and climate concerns back on top of the public agenda, the Green party has gained an opening.

More than 15 months after the last normal commute, the City of London can officially get back to the office today. But has it? To try to measure any changes our photographers documented some of the City’s pivotal locations a week ago, and then returned to the same locations this morning to see what, if anything, had shifted. Cheerleaders for the office, look away now. From London Bridge to King’s Cross, the crowds remain  stubbornly low. Queues for takeaway coffees -- that staple of the morning rush -- were brief. Watling Street, a popular thoroughfare lined with shops and casual eateries, saw little extra custom at lunchtime. ``Today has been quieter than normal,’’ said James Leahy, owner of the Burrito Joe food stand in the financial district. ``I haven't noticed an uptake of people around the City. We aren't expecting it to be busier until September.’’ The reluctance of commuters to return is understandable. Even as the government lifts restrictions, cases are surging, disrupting workplaces across the U.K. with hundreds of thousands of people being advised to self-isolate, including Prime Minister Boris Johnson.Stellantis NV will operate one fewer shift at its Vauxhall van plant in Luton, England, this week to protect its more than 1,500 workers. A Transport for London spokesman said the London underground service was continuing to have issues due to staff shortages. Pimlico station was closed all morning while there are delays on the Central and Metropolitan lines due to a lack of staff.The immediate operational impact is less severe on finance firms given how much white-collar work can be done remotely. But that is also dampening appetite for a return to the office. Some 40% of British workers said that a strict return to pre-pandemic office norms would hinder their performance, according to a nationally representative survey of 2,069 people conducted by Theta Global Advisors. Monday’s return to the City of London was certainly lackluster. See if you can spot the difference between today and last week: Monday, July 12. Monday, July 19. Monday, July 12.  Monday, July 19.  Monday, July 12.  Monday, July 19.  Monday, July 12.  Monday, July 19.  Monday, July 12.  Monday, July 19.  Monday, July 12.  Monday, July 19.  Monday, July 12.  Monday, July 19.  Monday, July 12. Monday, July 19.      — With assistance by Charlotte Ryan, and Tara Patel

Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government pledged to upgrade warning systems following fierce criticism that Germany’s emergency alerts failed as flooding killed over 160 people. While alarm systems, including a warning app backed by the federal government, had functioned, last week’s catastrophic flooding “show that we need to do more and to improve,” Martina Fietz, a deputy government spokeswoman, said in Berlin on Monday.

Kansas City Southern investors are right to worry that the Biden administration’s tougher stance on antitrust enforcement may signal trouble for the company’s $34 billion plan to sell itself to  Canadian National Railway Co. On July 9, President Joe Biden signed an executive order aimed at curbing abuses of pricing power in consolidated industries. The directive is broad, targeting sectors including agricultural-equipment makers and banks in an apparent attempt to signal that the shift in tone goes  far beyond the technology sector that’s borne the  brunt of public antitrust criticism. It’s still notable that railroads were included in the order. Seven providers dominate the industry, and the physical nature of rail infrastructure makes it more difficult for shippers to price-shop from one company to the next. But while most of the other sectors mentioned in the order have seen a rash of deals in recent years, there hasn’t been a sustained effort to win regulatory backing for a major combination of two North American railroads since the 1990s. Until now, that is. Kansas City Southern first agreed to sell itself to  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. but transferred its allegiance to Canadian National after the latter made a higher offer. The  Surface Transportation Board (STB) has primary and independent oversight for the railroad industry, though the U.S. Department of Justice has asserted a “statutory right to intervene” in major merger proceedings and has already raised  objections to aspects of the deal. Because Canadian National directly competes with Kansas City Southern in certain markets and the two railroads overlap somewhat, the STB has said the acquirer must meet tougher rules adopted in 2001 that require it to prove a transaction enhances competition and serves the public interest. But the “public interest” standard is fuzzy and untested. Canadian National has touted the benefits of connecting the U.S., Canada, and Mexico with one railroad and the prospect of luring traffic away from more environmentally problematic trucks. But in the executive order, the Biden administration proposed adding another dimension to the public-interest consideration: It wants the STB to factor in how railroads have performed when it comes to respecting  Amtrak passenger trains’ priority right of way. Amtrak grades the railroads based on how many delays they cause for its trains. Although Canadian National showed substantial improvement in 2020 to earn a B+, the company has had a prickly relationship with Amtrak, and its four-year average is just a D+. Only  Norfolk Southern Corp. scored worse. Kansas City Southern’s share price is now about $50 below the implied value of Canadian National’s cash-and-stock offer—the biggest gap for any pending takeover in North America—in a sign that traders are skeptical the deal will pass muster. The ultimate decision still falls to the STB, but the Biden order gives the regulator ample cover to block the deal. —Sutherland is a columnist for Bloomberg Opinion. Read more:  There’s a Good Reason Biden Singled Out Railroads for Criticism

An appeals court in India halted billionaire Anil Agarwal’s plan to take over Videocon Industries Ltd., after some creditors challenged the steep haircut imposed upon banks in the deal. The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal on Monday stayed a bankruptcy court’s verdict that approved the sale of Videocon Industries to Twin Star Technologies -- part of Agarwal’s Vedanta Group -- on an appeal by Bank of Maharashtra, said Chaitanya B. Nikte, the bank’s lawyer. IFCI Ltd. has also appealed the approval, according to updates on the appeals court’s website.

Investor doubts over China Evergrande Group intensified on Monday as a creditor’s successful demand to freeze some assets underscored concern that the embattled developer may struggle to raise funds. The company’s shares plummeted 16% to close at a four-year low in Hong Kong, while its listed electric vehicle unit sank 19%. Some of Evergrande’s local bonds fell to record lows.

Oil pared earlier gains after the American Petroleum Institute was said to report an unexpected U.S. crude inventory gain and a build in gasoline stockpiles. Crude supplies rose 806,000 barrels last week, according to people familiar with the API data. The crude build would be first since May if Energy Information Administration data confirms it Wednesday. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expected a crude stockpile decline of about 4.5 million barrels. Gasoline stockpiles increased 3.3 million barrels, the API was said to report.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government targeted his political rival Rahul Gandhi for surveillance using Israeli company NSO Group Ltd.’s Pegasus spyware, according to India’s largest opposition party. Phones belonging to Gandhi and India’s chief election commissioner, Ashok Lavasa, were identified as potential targets using the spyware in the lead up to the 2019 general polls, the Indian National Congress alleged. It cited media investigations into a leaked list of potential targets of NSO, whose spying tool Pegasus allows clients to infiltrate phones and monitor text messages, camera feeds and microphones.

Peruvian candidate Keiko Fujimori said she will recognize the results of the country’s contested presidential election, in her closest admission of defeat yet to rival Pedro Castillo. Fujimori, who lost the June 6 runoff by some 44,000 votes and has refused to concede by saying the election was fraudulent, said on Monday that she will accept the proclamation planned by Peru’s electoral court. While she called such a proclamation “illegitimate,” she called for the start of “a new phase” in the Andean country.

President Joe Biden said that disinformation about Covid-19 vaccines on Facebook Inc. harms those who believe it, walking back his accusation last week that social media giants are “killing people” by allowing the posts. “Facebook isn’t killing people,” Biden said Monday at the White House. “These 12 people who are out there giving misinformation, anyone listening to it is getting hurt by it, it’s killing people.”

For a century, the Indian Council of Medical Research was a little known government body quietly studying illnesses in New Delhi. But during the pandemic, it’s taken on a role akin to Anthony Fauci’s National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases in the U.S. -- a powerful position that’s made it a controversial face of India’s struggles with Covid-19. As the ICMR has acted as a key medical adviser to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his health ministry, it’s increasingly drawn criticism from the nation’s doctors and independent scientists, who have questioned its drug recommendations and the group’s lack of transparency on data related to variants identified in India that are now spreading globally.

Thailand plans to use more Chinese-made vaccines to fill the gap in supply from AstraZeneca Plc, with the country kicking off a world-first mixed dose regime amid an unprecedented flareup in its Covid outbreak. Thai health officials began administering Astra vaccine on Monday as the second shot to recipients of Sinovac Biotech Ltd.’s first jab to boost the defense against the more contagious delta variant that’s seen driving daily caseload to as high as 20,000 by next month. Under the revised vaccine regime, Thailand will use five million Sinovac shots per month, according to Opas Karnkawinpong, director-general of the Department of Disease Control.

Firms controlled by Indian billionaire Gautam Adani fell for a second day Tuesday, after the junior finance minister told parliament that some of them are being probed by the country’s markets regulator over compliance with local securities rules. Besides the Securities and Exchange Board of India, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, or DRI, is also “investigating certain entities” belonging to the Adani Group for compliance to another set of local laws, junior Finance Minister Pankaj Chaudhary said in response to a lawmaker’s question in the Indian parliament on Monday. Chaudhary didn’t elaborate on the investigations or name the Adani group companies being probed.

Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter A week of deadly protests in South Africa has given impetus to proposals that the government pay out cash stipends to address the high levels of poverty and inequality that fueled the unrest.

Donald Trump supporters who didn’t respond to pollsters were a likely cause of wildly wrong pre-election surveys in 2020 as political surveys suffered their worst performance in 40 years, a new industry report finds. If that trend continues, those non-responses could pose an even greater crisis for political polling than the advent of mobile phones a generation ago.

Athens, Greece (AP) -- Tolis Voskopoulos, a popular Greek folk singer, songwriter and actor whose career spanned more than six decades, has died. He was 80. Voskopoulos, considered a star of modern Greek folk music, died Monday in an Athens hospital of cardiac arrest, a few days shy of his 81st birthday and several weeks after being hospitalized with respiratory problems, Greek media reported.

The German economy is on the verge of recovering the ground lost during the pandemic with a pickup in growth this quarter, according to the Bundesbank. While the institution’s monthly report makes no mention of the floods that have devastated western parts of the country, a separate report by ING Groep N.V. says the impact to the country’s economy as a whole from the disaster is likely to be limited.

Rent the Runway Inc. has submitted a confidential filing for an initial public offering, according to a statement Monday. The New York-based fashion rental business had been interviewing investment bankers for an IPO that could come as soon as this year, Bloomberg News previously reported.

Tucson, Ariz. (AP) -- Authorities on Monday identified a suspect accused of fatally shooting one person and wounding four others, including firefighters and paramedics, during a house fire in Tucson. Leslie Stephen Scarlett, 35, remained in extremely critical condition at a local hospital, Tucson Police Chief Chris Magnus said at a news conference.

China’s tech tycoons are discovering their charitable side as they come under mounting regulatory scrutiny from Beijing. In the latest example, Xiaomi Corp. co-founder Lei Jun handed over $2.2 billion of shares in the smartphone maker to two foundations, according to filings to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. That came after Meituan’s Wang Xing and ByteDance Ltd.’s Zhang Yiming gave away parts of their fortune to charitable causes last month.

Long-term Treasury rates tumbled to the lowest levels in months on Monday as the spread of the delta coronavirus variant called into question optimistic assumptions about economic recovery, also touching off a global stock market slump. Market-implied expectations for a Federal Reserve rate increase were pushed further into the future amid stronger-than-normal debt-market volumes, and the rally in bonds drove benchmark 10-year yields down as much as 12 basis points to 1.17% on Monday. That’s a level unseen since early February and well below the 14-month high of 1.77% it reached in March. Some traders are now likely to begin looking toward 1%, a mark that hasn’t been breached since late January.

A selloff in Bitcoin accelerated Tuesday, pushing it below $30,000 for the first time in about a month. The largest digital coin fell 3.6% to $29,667 as of 7 a.m. in New York. Other virtual currencies also retreated, including second-ranked Ether. The Bloomberg Galaxy Crypto Index was down about 4%.

A man who carried a “Trump 2020” flag onto the Senate floor was sentenced to eight months behind bars, the first prison term resulting from the Jan. 6 riot at the U.S. Capitol. Paul Hodgkins, 38, was sentenced Monday in federal court in Washington after pleading guilty last month to obstructing an official proceeding. The Tampa, Florida, resident’s punishment could offer a preview of what awaits other supporters of former President Donald Trump arrested over their actions that day.

Robinhood Markets Inc. is asking investors to bet against recent performance history with the terms selected for its initial public offering. The trading app maker that helped fuel meme-stock mania will attempt to raise more than $2 billion in an IPO that should price next week. And the listing, which is set to become one of 2021’s largest, is arriving at a time when other large IPOs are trailing the gains enjoyed by most debuts this year.

YouTube will start labeling health videos with information on how authoritative the source is just days after President Joe Biden tore into social media for “killing people” by spreading falsehoods about vaccines. YouTube, part of Alphabet Inc.’s Google, announced the changes on Monday. Beneath certain videos about health, the company will add information panels that will alert viewers if the source is “authoritative,” such as when the video comes from an accredited hospital. YouTube will also start displaying select videos more prominently on the site when people search for health terms, similar to how it now treats certain news topics.

Tricon Residential Inc. is forming a $5 billion joint venture to buy more than 18,000 rental houses over the next three years, as institutional landlords gather capital to deploy in the hot U.S. housing market. Toronto-based Tricon is teaming with the Teacher Retirement System of Texas, Pacific Life Insurance Co. and a third institution to commit $1.4 billion in initial equity. The joint venture will use the funds and debt to buy homes, focusing on properties that cost roughly $250,000 and U.S. markets where Tricon already operates, though it may also expand into a small number of new markets.

House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy has picked five Republicans he wants Speaker Nancy Pelosi to approve for places on a new committee to investigate the Jan. 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol. The committee is holding its first public hearing July 27.

India’s Lenskart, an online retailer for eyewear, raised $220 million from investors including Temasek Holdings Pte and Falcon Edge Capital, in another sign of booming interest in the country’s technology startups. Founded by Peyush Bansal in 2010, the company sells eyeglasses, contact lenses and sunglasses online and through about 750 retail outlets in the country. It plans to use the capital, along with $95 million raised earlier this year from KKR & Co., to expand online sales and add brick-and-mortar stores in India, as well as in Southeast Asia and the Middle East.

The Biden administration is working with Congress to offer more visas to Afghan nationals who risk being targeted by the re-emergent Taliban for assisting U.S. forces during the two-decade war there. The legislative push comes as officials rush to evacuate thousands of Afghans to neighboring countries before the withdrawal of U.S. forces is completed next month. It has widespread support, but lawmakers are split on how to speed it through the typically slow-moving Capitol.

Welcome to Monday, Europe. Here’s the latest news and analysis from Bloomberg Economics to help you start the week.

(AP) -- The Venice International Film Festival will kick off its 78th edition in September with the premiere of Pedro Almodóvar’s film “Madres paralelas.” Organizers said Monday that the film about two, single and pregnant women starring Penélope Cruz, Milena Smit and Israel Elejalde will debut as part of the competition slate on Sept. 1.

Indonesia’s bonds are set to get another boost as the government downsizes its debt sale plan by nearly $20 billion, despite lingering concern over the budget deficit. Southeast Asia’s largest economy reduced its 2021 net bond issuance target, allotting only 460 trillion rupiah ($31.7 billion) for its auctions in the second half of the year, nearly 40% less than its initial plan. Slow state spending has piled up 136 trillion rupiah of unspent cash as of June, and the government will also use funding from international loans.

Sign up to receive the Green Daily newsletter in your inbox. Companies are buying carbon offsets  like never before. They’re also facing unprecedented scrutiny over whether helping to fund green projects elsewhere really makes up for their heat-trapping emissions.

California Governor Gavin Newsom signed legislation allocating an unprecedented $12 billion over two years to address homelessness, a highly visible problem that his opponents are seizing upon in the recall election. Speaking at an event in Sonoma County on Monday, the first-term Democrat touted the investment as the largest-ever response to the state’s crisis, with funds aimed at building new housing units and cleaning up city streets and freeways. More than a quarter of the nation’s homeless population lives in California, with most of them living outdoors rather than in shelters.

The Reserve Bank of India sees the current spate of quickening inflation driven by supply-side constraints that are likely to go away as the economy reopens, according to one of its ex-deputy governors. “That is why the RBI is not very concerned about immediate increase in inflation rates,” R. Gandhi, who was a deputy governor at the central bank between 2014 and 2017, said in an interview to Bloomberg TV’s Rishaad Salamat and Haslinda Amin.

Even the fast money has been caught off-guard by the latest leg of a relentless bond rally that’s stumping traders and strategists across Wall Street. Data on positioning among the biggest leveraged traders, the ranks of which are dominated by hedge funds, show the cohort has been increasing bets against longer-dated Treasuries for weeks, setting up for the reflation trade to get back on track as data points to an economic resurgence.

The world’s biggest project to capture and store carbon dioxide isn’t working like it should, highlighting the challenges oil companies face in tackling their greenhouse gas emissions. Chevron Corp.’s system at the $54 billion Gorgon liquefied natural gas export plant in Australia missed a local government target to inject captured carbon dioxide underground, the San Ramon, California-based company said Monday. That’s a setback for energy companies globally that have staked their net-zero futures on the technology, which has shown limited success to date.

New York (AP) -- After a year and a half away because of the pandemic, relentless road warrior Bob Dylan returned to a concert stage on Sunday — at least online. He performed for fans who paid $25 to watch online through the live-streaming platform Veeps. It was less a concert than a stylized black-and-white film, with the 80-year-old singer fronting a four-piece band in a juke joint before audience members who smoked a lot and paid little attention to him.

Retail investors who fueled a basket of meme stocks to meteoric heights are getting pummeled by a risk-off environment and waning enthusiasm for their favorite high-flying stocks. The group of 37 so-called meme stocks tracked by Bloomberg fell 0.5% on Monday, marking a sixth straight decline, after its worst week since late February. The basket’s longest losing streak since taking Wall Street by storm comes as the spread of the delta variant sparked concerns about the future of global economic growth.

Exxon Mobil Corp. recruited a company outsider for the first time to join the chief executive officer’s inner circle of managers, a move that comes just weeks after the oil giant suffered a stunning setback at the hands of a tiny activist investor. Kathryn Mikells will join Exxon Aug. 9 as chief financial officer from Diageo Plc, where she held the same role and was also a director, according to a statement Monday. Mikells, 55, will be the first woman among the ranks of senior vice presidents that share day-to-day management duties with CEO Darren Woods, and the first executive to hold such a high position without a background in oil, natural gas or chemicals.

While Japan’s mammoth Government Pension Investment Fund has yet to decide if it should invest in Chinese sovereign bonds, a smaller pension operator that mimics the GPIF’s portfolio says it will treat Chinese debt the same as any other emerging market’s. The Promotion and Mutual Aid Corporation for Private Schools of Japan, or PMAC, which provides pension services to private school workers, will consider investing further in Chinese debt when it’s added to FTSE Russell’s benchmark World Government Bond Index in October, according to Kei Terasako and Masaharu Noguchi, two officials from the fund.

Sign up for the New Economy Daily newsletter, follow us @economics and subscribe to our podcast. The disproportionate hit that Covid-19 dealt to female workers is set to endure, with men’s employment recovering more quickly than women’s, according to the International Labour Organization.

Los Angeles has reinstated indoor mask requirements. Sydney has tightened lockdown measures. Athletes in Japan for the Olympics are testing positive for Covid-19. On Monday, many got a jarring reminder that the coronavirus pandemic hasn’t gone away, with anxious investors worried the resurgences could erode economic growth and reverse a rally in equities that had reached record highs as recently as last week.

The economic crisis and food system disruptions from the Covid-19 pandemic will worsen the lack of nutrition in women and children, with the potential to cost the world almost $30 billion in future productivity losses. As many as 3 billion people may be unable to afford a healthy diet due to the pandemic, according to a study published in Nature Food journal. This will exacerbate maternal and child under-nutrition in low- and middle-income countries, causing stunting, wasting, mortality and maternal anemia.

President Joe Biden nominated Judith D. Pryor as first vice president of the Export-Import Bank of the U.S., the nation’s official export-credit agency. Pryor, who is currently a director on the bank’s board, previously served during the Obama administration as the vice president of external affairs at Overseas Private Investment Corp., now known as the U.S. International Development Finance Corp., the White House said in a statement Monday.

The spread of the highly-contagious Delta variant continued to weigh on risk assets Monday with Asian markets in the crosshairs as the region struggles with worsening outbreaks amid a slow vaccine rollout. The regional stock benchmark dropped as much as 1.4% with bourses in Southeast Asia leading declines. The main Philippine gauge fell the most since March after the country reported its first local cases of the variant on Friday, while Vietnam’s VN Index is on track to fall into a technical correction on fresh restrictions.

International Business Machines Corp. reported its biggest increase in revenue in three years on the back of strong cloud-computing demand, beating analysts’ estimates and signaling Chief Executive Officer Arvind Krishna’s pivot to the fast-growing market is starting to pay off. The shares jumped as much as 4.3% in extended trading in New York. Sales rose 3.4% to $18.7 billion for the three months ending June 30, the Armonk, New York-based company said Monday in a statement. That was well ahead of the $18.3 billion analysts had forecast, on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.

An Iranian protester was killed during demonstrations against the government’s handling of water shortages and drought in oil-producing, southwestern Khuzestan province, the semi-official Iranian Students’ News Agency reported. The 30-year-old man was struck by a bullet in Shadegan, near the border with Iraq, on July 16, ISNA reported, quoting Governor Omid Sabripoor, who blamed “rioters and opportunists” for the death.

When Tokyo last hosted the Olympics, in 1964, the unveiling of a bullet train capable of the improbable speed of 210 kilometers an hour (130 mph) heralded the dawn of a high-tech era in Japan. Within a decade and a half, innovations such as Sony Corp.’s videocassette recorder, Toshiba Corp. flash memory and Space Invaders, the arcade shoot-em up that revolutionized the gaming industry, made Japan synonymous with global technological superiority, and the talk was of it overtaking the U.S. as the world’s biggest economy.

President Joe Biden picked Capitol Hill veteran Graham Steele for a key Treasury Department post that helps coordinate legislation and regulations affecting the U.S. financial sector. The White House announced Biden’s intent to nominate Steele as assistant secretary for financial institutions in a Monday statement, setting him up as the administration’s point person on policies for Wall Street banks and mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.

Subscribe to Blood River on Apple PodcastsSubscribe to Blood River on Spotify Megaphone.fm: Part 8: The Trial by Blood River

Robinhood Markets Inc. is seeking a valuation of $35 billion in its initial public offering, just short of the highest analyst projections, as the free trading app advances toward a debut likely to draw in buyers from its own novice investor base. The company at the center of this year’s meme stock frenzy will market 55 million shares for $38 to $42 each, according to a filing Monday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Bloomberg Intelligence in March estimated that Robinhood could be valued in a range of $13 billion to $40 billion.

Washington (AP) -- Two more Texas lawmakers who left their state to hobble efforts to pass new voting restrictions have tested positive for the coronavirus, raising to five the number of infected people in the delegation. State Rep. Trey Martinez Fischer of San Antonio said in a statement Sunday that he had tested positive. "I am quarantining until I test negative, and I am grateful to be only experiencing extremely mild symptoms,” he said.

A new weapon is gaining traction in the fight against the economic fallout of Covid-19: Debt sales designed to alleviate suffering. Governments and companies in emerging markets have sold close to $16 billion of so-called social bonds so far this year, on pace to shatter last year’s total, according to data compiled by Bloomberg as of close on July 19. These bonds, with proceeds earmarked specifically for projects that address human needs -- such as health, hunger and education -- have already lured fresh investment to Chile and Ecuador, and soon, Ghana.

Follow @crypto Twitter for the latest news. The European Union is proposing to prohibit anonymous cryptocurrency transactions as part of a broader plan to combat money laundering and terrorism financing.

Winnebago Industries Inc., maker of its namesake motor home, has agreed to buy privately-held Barletta Pontoon Boats for more than $300 million in a deal that will further expand its marine business. Forest City, Iowa-based Winnebago will pay $255 million upfront in cash and stock, and as much as $65 million if the boat manufacturer meets certain performance milestones over the next two and a half years, according to a statement provided to Bloomberg News.

Representative Peter DeFazio blasted the Senate’s bipartisan infrastructure deal, saying there are “extraordinary deficiencies” in the plan that is backed by President Joe Biden. DeFazio, the Democratic chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, said Tuesday during a press conference organized by Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety that the Senate plan is “essentially status quo on safety, and status quo on highway building and will not deal with fossil fuel pollution and carbon reduction.”

The hacks came one right after another, sowing chaos at hospitals, idling America’s biggest gasoline pipeline, crippling a huge meat supplier and devastating hundreds of companies over the July 4 weekend. Now, insurers are reassessing the cyber business.

Welcome to Tuesday, Americas. Here’s the latest news and analysis from Bloomberg Economics to help you start the day:

When record-shattering triple-digit temperatures hit the Pacific Northwest in late June, some scientists saw more than just an extraordinarily unusual heat wave amid the severe drought and wildfires already afflicting the Western U.S. this summer. Researchers with the group World Weather Attribution studied the event, which impacted nine million people, killed hundreds, and obliterated local heat records by as many as nine degrees, and determined it could be something of a landmark in the escalation of the climate crisis — a weather event so off the charts that it would have been statistically impossible in a world before human-caused climate change. As Dutch climate researcher Geert Jan van Oldenborgh put it during an episode of The Daily, “we could be past the threshold that made these kinds of heat waves certainly much more likely.” Weather extremes once expected to come in decades are occurring today. And too many cities are dangerously unprepared.  A new joint report by McKinsey Sustainability and C40 Cities, a coalition of municipalities collaborating on environmental policies and initiatives, argues that cities need to assume what could be considered a wartime footing against the rapid escalation of the climate crisis, preparing to face and adapt to extreme weather that has already arrived. The ongoing heat emergency in the West, like the devastating flooding that swept towns in Germany and Belgium last week, represents the beginning of what these experts predict could be a continuing string of catastrophic natural disasters caused by a changing climate. In India, hundreds of millions face the possibility of lethal heat waves; in Vietnam, floodwaters engulfing Ho Chi Minh City could cost the city billions of dollars; and over time, the impacts of rising sea levels could strip tens of billions of dollars from the value of coastal real estate in Florida.  As two of the authors of Focused Adaptation: A Strategic Approach to Climate Adaptation in Cities told CityLab, they feel the dialogue around climate action has shifted, seemingly in the space of months. Instead of debating when severe climate changes will manifest, the conversation is increasingly based on the understanding that it’s too late to stop these serious impacts. Simultaneously, there’s a unique overlap of increased awareness of the dire impacts of climate change, real-time examples of its dangers, and a generally positive climate for investments and spending on resiliency that could combine to fund more widespread adaptation.  “Cities around the world are in a moment where they are making choices about investments to adapt, and are faced with a dizzying array of options on where to place money, time and intention,” said Brodie Boland, one of the report’s co-authors and a McKinsey expert on climate risk. “We wanted to provide a guide for city leaders to get a toehold on the issue and get a place to start. Instead of planning mode, we’re in immediate action mode.” The report outlines 15 strategies, chosen for being the most high-impact, easy-to-implement means of making global cities more resilient, and help local leaders work through the “multifaceted, decentralized, and unequal consequences of physical climate hazards.” Four of them are universal solutions every city should adopt: increasing awareness through research and risk assessments, incorporating climate risk through city actions and policies like zoning and urban planning, optimizing responses with early-warning systems, and enhancing financing programs like climate insurance. The remaining 11 offer contextual strategies based on climate and geography for issues like droughts or flooding. Overall, nature-based solutions, such as  planting heat-mitigating street trees or installing natural infrastructure like salt marshes as coastal barriers, are the most attractive in terms of feasibility and impact across many crises.  “Everything around you is designed with a certain environmental condition in mind,” said Mikhail Chester, director of the Metis Center for Infrastructure and Sustainable Engineering at Arizona State. “And because of that, everything is at play. Every piece of infrastructure is vulnerable. But that narrative is paralyzing. If I can’t even fix the roads today, how do I fix everything?”  While the report doesn’t estimate the total potential cost of funding needed adaptation measures, a growing body of research suggests that these improvements are money well spent. The cost-benefit ratio for U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) mitigation grants, for example, is 1-to-4.    “We can’t upgrade everything out there as fast as climate change is coming down upon us.” Many cities have proposed emissions reduction plans or set ambitious targets for transportations and energy shifts, but many have yet to complete exhaustive risk assessments. CDP North America, a nonprofit that assesses climate and environmental risk, tracks the climate plans of  more than 800 global cities; 93% of them recognize climate risk, but 43% don’t have adaptation plans to keep people and critical infrastructure safe, according to Katie Walsh, CDP’s head of cities, states, and regions. Local leaders told CDP that budgetary issues, housing issues and the challenge of poverty were the main deterrents to action.  And it’s often not just enough to complete a traditional risk assessment, Boland says. It’s about shifting the analysis to recognize new, faster trajectories of change, and figuring out the degree of impact those hazards will have on the current built environment. Previous guideposts like flood maps, which have been based on historical patterns, need to be more predictive. The U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 2021 State of High Tide Flooding and Annual Outlook, released last week, found record-setting high-tide flooding last year across the entire nation, and twice as many high-tide flooding days than 20 years ago.  Currently, says Chester, the U.S. has what he calls “Band-Aided” infrastructure, which suffers from years of disinvestment and neglect. Now cities need to “make surgical investments and triage like wartime.” That requires thinking about critical infrastructure and climate forecasts and identifying systems and structures they can’t afford to let break down.  It’s also vital to recognize new or rising risks: A new report looking at “double disasters,” or extreme weather followed by an industrial accident, found a third of U.S. chemical facilities are subject to risks like flooding, storm surge and wildfire. “We can’t upgrade everything out there as fast as climate change is coming down upon us,” Chester said. The report notes the significant danger of our interconnected cities, and how flooded roads can knot up traffic and knock out public transit, or storm surges can pound coastal property and sever key power lines. “Climate change is simply moving faster than we can change infrastructure. That infrastructure will fail. We need to think about what happens when infrastructure fails. Have you designed failure into the infrastructure system itself?” Inasmuch as there’s good news in this report, it’s the fact that there’s increasing financial support for investment in adaptation. Walsh says there’s a growing appetite from the financial world for environmental impact bonds, a shift corresponding with the rise in Millennial and women investors, who demand greener options. In late June, Buffalo, New York closed on a $49 million deal to fund green stormwater infrastructure, the largest such environmental impact bond deal in U.S. history. Last week, a network of institutional investors, under the Investor Agenda network, who collectively manage tens of trillions of dollars of assets, released a letter aimed at U.S. policymakers about the infrastructure deals, arguing that “this historic effort must include visionary climate policies matching the scale and urgency of the systemic and economic risks that lie ahead” and promising to match such efforts with their own investments.  “At this moment, we have science making the imperative more clear, best-practice examples of cities doing the work, and new and innovative financial mechanisms,” said Walsh. “Now is the time to seize that.” As Congress debates different iterations of infrastructure and climate spending, either via a bill or reconciliation process, now would be an ideal time to put climate adaptation at the top of the list. McKinsey’s Boland suggests making sure dollars spent hit multiple targets, such as decarbonization, economic development and jobs, and resilience.  Activists and advocates have been pushing the U.S. government to include more adaptation measures, focused on frontline communities and those that have suffered from environmental injustice. A priority of the Sunrise Movement, a climate activism group, has been investing in cities and towns, especially the Civilian Climate Corps, a proposal to employ 1.5 million Americans to build green infrastructure modeled after WPA-era public jobs programs aimed at conservation. Other proposals, including Green New Deals for Cities and Schools, would also, in part, fund more resilient buildings. All of them, says Sunrise Movement communications director Ellen Sciales, are good policy and good politics. “We’re in a historic opportunity, coming out of a global pandemic when people are underemployed,” she said. “Voters don’t see bipartisanship, or know who Rob Portman or Joe Manchin are. They see the money invested in their communities, the jobs created, and that we’re combating the climate crisis.” Plans focused on protecting key infrastructure may overlook areas and communities that have traditionally been disinvested and discriminated against. The oft-repeated facts about how rapid urbanization in the coming decades will put more people at risk — by 2050, the report notes, more than 800 million urbanites will be impacted by sea-level rise, 1.6 billion will face chronic extreme heat, and 650 million could face water scarcity — become even more alarming when the expected ballooning of informal settlements is considered. Previous research suggested 40% of city dwellers by 2030 could live in informal settlements, and tens of million of climate refugees may be on the move by mid-century. It’s important that larger investments, and risk assessments and future plans for infrastructure protection, also factor in climate justice and frontline communities. “It’s important to ensure the investment is where the impacts are actually seen now, and prioritizing who gets the benefits,” says Snigdha Garg, senior manager of adaptation research and integration for C40 Cities and a co-author of the report. “Covid has made things more urgent, and showcased the need for that kind of prioritization.”  “It’s playing catch-up,” Garg said. “How do we get to where we need to be?”

Washington (AP) -- Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell implored unvaccinated Americans Tuesday to take the COVID-19 shot, issuing a stark and grave warning of a repeat of last year's rising caseloads and shutdowns if people refuse to protect themselves from the coronavirus. McConnell urged Americans to ignore the “demonstrably bad advice” coming from pundits and others against the vaccines. As cases  skyrocket, he noted that nearly all the new virus hospitalizations in the U.S. are among people who have not been vaccinated.

California Treasurer Fiona Ma is facing a lawsuit from a former executive director who is accusing her of sexual harassment, discrimination and wrongful termination. Judith Blackwell, who at one point oversaw two key housing finance agencies, said the treasurer exposed her naked rear end to her many times and gave her gifts such as edible marijuana, according to the suit filed July 13 in state court in Sacramento. Blackwell said Ma fired her without providing any reason in January and also claimed the treasurer had terminated other senior Black employees.

Chancellor Angela Merkel promised prompt financial support for rebuilding efforts as she said rebuilding regions hit by flooding will be a long process. Merkel visited devastated regions with Armin Laschet, the state leader poised to succeed her after the September election. The two toured Bad Muenstereifel, a town near Bonn in Germany’s Rhine valley that was ravaged by flooding last week.

Palantir Technologies Inc. has long pursued some of the largest governments and companies in the world as customers. Now, in a dramatic shift in strategy, it’s chasing startups. The controversial data integration and analytics company co-founded by billionaire Peter Thiel plans to announce Tuesday it will sell software on a monthly subscription model to smaller companies, starting first with a handful of startups connected to former Palantir employees.

If it takes an astronaut to know one, Jeff Bezos and his crew mates are astronauts. Bezos, founder of Amazon.Com Inc. and the world’s richest man, along with three other civilians completed Blue Origin’s space flight on Tuesday, rocketing some 62 miles above Earth after launching from Bezos’s West Texas ranch.

ChargePoint Holdings Inc. will spend about 250 million euros ($295 million) to buy European e-mobility software company Has.to.be GmbH, expanding the electric car charging network’s presence in one of the world’s fastest growing EV markets. The planned stock-and-cash transaction is expected to close this year, pending regulatory approval, the two companies said Tuesday. It will be ChargePoint’s first acquisition since the company went public in March, said Chief Executive Officer Pasquale Romano.

Singapore will tighten restrictions on dining-in and social gatherings again and halt indoor exercise from Thursday, amid a record daily number of Covid-19 infections fueled by highly transmissible strains of the virus that are spreading across Southeast Asia. Dining-in will be suspended and group gatherings will be cut from five people to just two through Aug. 18, authorities said at a Tuesday briefing, with the measures to be reviewed after two weeks. Singapore will also unveil a virus support package in the coming days, which Finance Minister Lawrence Wong said would “take reference” from earlier aid. A prior package cost S$1.2 billion ($878 million), funded by a reallocation of money.

Heatwaves in one of the world’s hottest countries eased slightly as Hajj pilgrims make the arduous journey to Mecca this week.  Saudi Arabia forecasts temperatures will rise to as high as 44 degrees Celsius (111 Fahrenheit) in Mecca, the holiest city for Muslims that draws the faithful from around the world. The city’s hot desert climate, with virtually no rainfall in the summer, is expected to get even more extreme in the coming years as the planet warms. The highest temperature recorded in Hajj in the past 5 years was 50ºC in 2018 on Arafat day, the most important day of Hajj, according to the country’s Center of Meteorology.

(AP) -- A look at what’s happening the world of music as artists announce their touring plans and concert venues plan their reopenings after being shuttered by the pandemic. COSMIC COLDPLAY

TaxBit, a maker of cryptocurrency tax and accounting software, is in talks to raise new funding at a valuation that would vault the company to so-called unicorn status, according to people with knowledge of the matter. The Salt Lake City, Utah-based startup is discussing raising capital at a valuation of $1 billion or more, said the people, who asked not to be identified because the talks are private. Terms haven’t been finalized.

The world’s biggest coffee supplier is facing some of the coldest weather in more than 25 years, dimming hopes for the harvest and threatening to raise prices for the popular beverage. Temperatures in Brazil’s coffee-growing regions fell below zero Celsius (32 Fahrenheit) for hours on Tuesday, with southern Minas Gerais the coldest since 1994, according to Rural Clima. Damage to coffee as well as some orange groves was “very significant,” said Marco Antonio dos Santos, a meteorologist at Rural Clima in Valinhos. Another cold front is expected late next week.

BlackRock Inc. rejected almost five times more board directors at companies, including Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and Exxon Mobil Corp., during the recent proxy season because they failed to act on climate issues. The New York-based asset manager voted against 255 directors in the period ended June 30, up from 55 a year earlier, according to a stewardship report released Tuesday. It also failed to support the management of 319 companies for climate-related reasons, compared with 53 in 2020.

Barclays Plc announced a raft of promotions, led by the appointments of Jean-Francois “JF” Astier and John Miller as co-heads of investment banking and members of a new management team charged with driving growth for the business. The pair will supervise the firm’s coverage, product and portfolio management, and will continue to report to Paul Compton, global head of investment banking and co-president of Barclays Bank Plc, the firm told staff on Tuesday. Astier was previously global head of capital markets and mergers and acquisitions, while Miller was global head of coverage investment banking.

The world’s biggest oil and gas companies are more likely to talk to Wall Street about emissions than how their businesses might grow. That, at least, is according to a Bloomberg analysis of conference calls for the world’s 25 biggest fossil fuel producers including Exxon Mobil Corp. and Gazprom PJSC. The data shows how environmental buzzwords and key phrases such as “carbon”, “climate change” and “renewables” are finding its way into conversations with analysts and investors like never before.

A senior spokesperson for House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and a White House official have tested positive for Covid-19. Both had been fully vaccinated and are among several staffers in Congress and at the White House who’ve been recently infected. The Pelosi staff member had no contact with the speaker since being exposed, Drew Hammill, a Pelosi spokesperson, said in a statement. White House press secretary Jen Psaki said that contract tracing had determined that the infected staff there had no close contact with senior people or President Joe Biden.

British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab lashed out at the European Union’s plan for a post-Brexit deal for Gibraltar, accusing the bloc of trying to undermine the U.K.’s “sovereignty” over the territory. Raab said the EU’s draft negotiating mandate was no basis for talks over a long-term solution for the small stretch of land adjoining Spain’s southern tip. The EU’s proposal “directly conflicts” with a temporary agreement struck last year, he said.

Peru’s Pedro Castillo, a rural union activist from a Marxist party, will take the reins of a deeply divided country after being declared president-elect following weeks of vote recounts, lawsuits and fraud allegations. The result, proclaimed Monday night by Peruvian electoral authorities, will help to dispel the uncertainty that has gripped the Andean nation since the June 6 runoff. But it leaves Castillo, a teacher from the highlands with no previous experience of national politics, with the daunting challenge of trying to bridge an array of political, economic and geographical divisions laid bare by the election.

After a first half built on reopening hopes, a sudden bearish turn has replaced inflation fears with growth worries -- sharply dividing Wall Street. Reflation trades and optimism about a V-shaped economic recovery has given way to talk of peak growth and doubt about the durability of a rebound built on the belief that the pandemic is over.

Russia said the Taliban is playing a “positive” role by helping to secure the border with Central Asian states amid a militant threat and could take control of Afghanistan unless peace efforts accelerate. “The Taliban at least for now is a positive factor from the point of view of ensuring the security of our Central Asian partners,” Deputy Foreign Minister Zamir Kabulov, who is the Kremlin’s special envoy for Afghanistan, said Tuesday in an online talk hosted by the Valdai discussion club.

More Japanese companies have decided against sending executives to Friday’s opening ceremony for the Tokyo Olympics as concerns about holding the games during the pandemic grow. Senior officials from Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp., Fujitsu Ltd. and NEC Corp. will skip the event given that organizers decided to hold the games without spectators, spokespeople for the technology giants said Tuesday, a day after Toyota Motor Corp. announced its top executive wouldn’t attend.Japan’s pledge to hold a safe and secure games is coming under threat as Covid-19 cases jump in Tokyo and visiting athletes test positive for the virus. In a fresh public relations setback, Japanese musician Keigo Oyamada, known as Cornelius, quit the team creating the opening ceremony after acknowledging he bullied school classmates with disabilities years ago.

More than two dozen people have died and 100,000 have been evacuated as catastrophic floods swept through the central Chinese province of Henan. China Central Television reported that 25 people have been killed while seven others are missing, citing a local government briefing. The city of Zhengzhou earlier said at least 12 died on a subway there.

France is looking into a news report that the phone of French President Emmanuel Macron may have been tapped on behalf of Morocco using spyware developed by Israel’s NSO group, his office said Tuesday. A Moroccan surveillance agency attempted to access his private conversations in 2019, according to an international investigation cited by France Info, which took part in the project.

For the first time in seven years, Halliburton Co., the biggest provider of fracking services, is expanding in both U.S. and foreign markets as spending recovers in the global energy industry. “The economy feels more than 2% shut in, so the demand growth is there,” Chief Executive Officer Jeff Miller said Tuesday in an interview on Bloomberg TV. Drillers are “going to require a lot of services as we meet global demand for oil and gas.”

Beijing (AP) -- A popular Chinese-Canadian singer, Kris Wu, has lost endorsement and other deals with at least 10 brands including Porsche and Bulgari after a teen-ager accused him of having sex with her while she was drunk. The former member of Korean boy band EXO denied the accusation, which prompted an outpouring of supportive comments for the woman online and criticism of Wu.

Netflix Inc. suffered its worst stock decline in three months after the streaming giant got off to a slow start in 2021 and gave a disappointing forecast for the latest quarter. The shares fell as much as 4.8% to $505.61 on Wednesday in New York, marking the biggest decline since April 21 -- the day after another poorly received quarterly report.

Judith Caballero Cruz has lost two close family members to Covid-19 this year. Now she fears the pandemic could take away something else: her children’s future. For the mother of two in Mexico City, the academic year that just finished was an unrelenting struggle—as it was for families all over the world. Parents and children have had it  especially tough in Latin America, which has recorded the longest school closures of any region. By mid-June only eight countries—mostly small Caribbean islands—had managed to fully reopen their schools. March 2020 to June 2021 Data: Unesco  With schools in the Mexican capital mostly shuttered since Covid arrived, Caballero had to fight to keep her 14- and 8-year-old boys engaged in remote learning. She relied on her mobile phone package to keep them connected with online classes, until the responsibility for making funeral arrangements for her father and stepfather, and comforting  fellow mourners, ate up all her monthly data as well as her emotional energy. She tried internet cafes—but social distancing restrictions on the number of patrons meant she couldn’t accompany either child inside. At her father’s house, she tuned in to the TV channels where lessons were broadcast—but had to toggle between channels so both kids could keep up. Eventually she had to pay for two TVs and an internet connection at her own home. Together they cost about 850 pesos ($42) a month, a big chunk of the money she and her husband make selling secondhand clothes and electronics in street markets. And even that didn’t address the root of her problem. “My sons got very depressed in the pandemic when they called to tell me that my father was doing badly, that he was in a serious condition,” Caballero says. “The school environment has a big impact on them. They have a greater desire to study there, when they see other kids doing their work.” Globally, more than 800 million children have had their education disrupted by the pandemic this year, according to Unesco. In Latin America about 100 million are still affected by closures. As children fall behind, there’s a risk that economies will do the same. The World Bank estimates the interruption of schooling could translate into $1.7 trillion of lost future income in the region. Teachers often chafe at the idea that education should be measured in earnings. But Mexican educators such as Luis Martín Espino Méndez understand and share the concern underlying such statistics: that their students will drop out, with repercussions that will last the rest of their lives. Espino, who teaches history at a public school in Mexico City, finished the academic year delivering lessons from his kitchen table. At that stage of a normal year, he’d have been telling his students about Mexico’s 19th century war of independence. Instead he got only as far as the Spanish conquest some three centuries earlier. Several of his students had told him they were ditching classes to work as mechanics, salesmen, or food vendors. It’s a problem across Latin America, which had succeeded in reducing the prevalence of child labor in the years before the Covid crisis. Now that trend has likely gone into reverse: According to the International Labour Organization, the number of school-age children who are working could rise by 9 million by the end of 2022. In Mexico, authorities estimate that 1.8 million students failed to return for the 2020-21 school year because of financial hardship or pandemic-related reasons. Espino’s school lost touch with about 40% of its students and struggled to figure out how to grade them. About half were awarded a pass after doing makeup exams, and the rest still have a chance during a remedial period at the start of the next school year, part of a national plan to prevent students from failing. Espino says the process has made him worry that students could come to see their education as merely a quest to obtain a piece of paper. “We have to think about the kinds of citizens we are forming, the type of people we are forming, and what we are teaching them,” he says. “We don’t want just a generation of automatons.” Students have had to adapt to a new learning style. Some stopped attending any classes at all but continued turning in homework—the bare minimum needed to pass—through WhatsApp or Facebook, or by hand-delivering their notebooks. While the national plan focused on televised classes, teachers in areas with internet access offered classes via videoconferencing platforms so they could interact with students. Fifteen-year-old Eduardo Mondragón Salgado, who wants to study aeronautics, says he’s barely left the house since Covid struck, because he’s asthmatic. He stopped joining his friends for soccer games and spends most of his days at a makeshift desk squeezed in at the foot of a bed. “There used to be moments when I got stressed about just being at home, and I used to go hang out with my friends, and that would make me calmer,” he says. Many teachers in Mexico City voted not to return to school in June, when authorities said public-health conditions had improved enough to make it feasible. They pointed out that some of their schools lack running water and only they, not their students, were vaccinated. Other states resumed classes only to suspend them again when case counts started to go back up. While studies have suggested that schools aren’t major sites of contagion, it’s hard for countries in Latin America to make classrooms safe. For starters, they’re overcrowded: An Inter-American Development Bank study found that class sizes across the region would have to be cut as much as 40% to achieve proper social distancing. And the pace of vaccine rollouts locally is lagging that in wealthier countries. It all added up to a risk that teachers didn’t want to take—even though they acknowledge the inadequacy of the online and televised substitutes. “All we can do is put Band-Aids on the problem and provide basic learning conditions,” says Sulem Estrada Saldaña, who teaches Spanish in Mexico City but made the decision not to return to in-person teaching when she was consulted by her school’s administrators in May. “We know the kids need far more than that.” Teachers say extra resources might be needed next academic year. Last month the government announced that the 2021-22 school year will be 10 days longer than usual, at 200 days, to try to make up for the material not covered last year. According to a national teachers’ union, Covid-19 has claimed the lives of at least 2,000 educators, which will make catching up more difficult. Parents have had to wrestle with the same dilemma that confronts teachers and school authorities: balancing the future costs of interrupted learning against health risks today. Caballero says she’d been coming round to the idea of sending her kids back to school for a few days a week, but other parents and teachers voted against it. Rosa María Salgado Cabrera, Eduardo’s mom, wants him back in school only when he’s vaccinated.  Mexico’s president says the whole adult population will have at least one shot by October, but there’s no timeline yet for teens and younger children. Salgado, who runs a breakfast stand in front of their home, has already seen one of her sons quit school, at age 16, when the family was saddled with unexpected medical bills because of her husband’s diabetes. She’s been shocked by the costs of remote learning, from textbook fees to lab supplies, that have forced other students to drop out. But she’s determined that won’t happen to her younger son. As for Eduardo, he insists he’s gearing up to return next semester, starting in August. “I just want to keep going, in school and in life,” he says. —With Maria Eloisa Capurro









































































































































As the European Union gets serious about fighting climate change, experts are fielding more calls than ever from polluters seeking help to trap, process and store their carbon emissions. The business of capturing emissions from industrial plants that make everything from cement to energy will get a push from the European Commission’s  ambitious climate plan and a continued rally in carbon permits, as widely forecast by analysts, traders and utilities. While the industry isn’t profitable yet, operators expect it will be soon.

A former EBay global security manager who admitted joining a bizarre cyberstalking campaign against an online critic blames alcoholism and a culture of heavy drinking at the company for his poor judgment and an incriminating “thumbs up” emoji he texted to a co-conspirator. Philip Cooke, who joined EBay after his retirement from the Santa Clara Police, is one of seven ex-EBay employees accused of harassing a suburban Boston blogger and her husband in 2019. The campaign included anonymous threatening tweets and macabre deliveries, including a bloody pig mask and a book on surviving the death of a spouse.

Even before Covid-19 struck, Brazil’s census was in trouble. In 2019, the administration of President Jair Bolsonaro announced that the number of survey questions in the decennial population count, set for 2020, would be reduced due to budgetary restraints. Amid the first wave of Covid-19 outbreaks in March 2020, the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE) said that the census would be postponed to 2021. In April, the Brazilian government canceled it, due to heavy national spending cuts due to the country’s decade-long economic crisis exacerbated by the pandemic.  Now the census is set to proceed in 2022, after a state government sued and the Supreme Court ruled in May that the government would need to find the funds necessary to carry it out.  The story is similar in other Latin American countries. Government leaders have also postponed or canceled census activities in Bolivia, Ecuador and Chile in recent months, citing the ravaging effects of Covid-19. Echoing experts in the U.S., who fear that the 2020 enumeration effort could be marred by data gaps and the effects of political manipulation from the Trump administration, demographers and other researchers are warning that the social effects of a lack of accurate population data could be felt by citizens for years to come. Besides counting residents, national censuses brings data on living conditions, employment, income, access to sanitation, and schooling, and help inform social policies that distribute federal resources. Without new census data, for example, funding levels for Brazil’s municipalities will freeze at 2010 levels, said Roberto do Carmo, professor of the Department of Demography at the University of Campinas and president of the Brazilian Association of Population Studies. That could leave areas that have grown poorer or more populous with fewer resources than they need, and create challenges for vulnerable citizens in accessing social benefits and programs. Outdated census data has already created problems for the Bolsonaro administration when it distributed pandemic emergency aid to low-income people in 2020. “There was no detailed and reliable information that could indicate the extent of the aid that would be needed,” Carmo said.  The disruptions created by the pandemic — which has cost the lives of more than 534,000 people in Brazil and sent unemployment and inequality skyrocketing — are real. Countries all over the world, including the U.S., China and India, were also forced by Covid-19 to push back scheduled population surveys and data releases. Brazil’s census workers would have required costly precautions, such as personal protective equipment, and the results would likely have been complicated by a low response rate among wary residents. But Carmo said that the political ideology animating the Bolsonaro administration jibes with the delays and attempted cancelation.   “This government defines itself as contrary to knowledge,” he said, pointing to Bolsonaro’s repeated characterization of Covid as a “little flu,” refusal to wear masks at public events, and denial of climate change while promoting massive deforestation in the Amazon. “The census provides knowledge about the country’s social and demographic context that is accurate, qualified and detailed. So, in a way, the census opposes the basic principles advocated by the current government.” (The Bolsonaro administration did not respond to requests for comment.) This is not the first time that the Brazilian census has been postponed: The 1990 census was conducted a year late, due to an economic crisis and political instability that ultimately led to the 1992 impeachment of then-President Fernando Collor de Mello. “With the exception of Mexico, census postponements have always existed in Latin American countries for different reasons, ranging from economic crises, budgetary reasons and/or lack of prioritization and alignment with political calendars,” said Fabiana Del Popolo, who leads demography and population research at the Latin American and Caribbean Demographic Center. In Ecuador, for example, an April resolution by the nation’s Emergency Operations Committee requested that the 10-year census be postponed until 2022 to protect census agents from infection as the country faces a deep health and economic crisis as a result of both Covid and years of  austerity measures. Prior to the pandemic, the national government had already stripped the budget of its census bureau and removed its autonomy, causing delays in its ability to prepare, make technical decisions, and damaging its legitimacy, said Byron Villacis, the former general director of the National Institute of Statistics and Censuses of Ecuador and a doctoral student at the University of California, Berkeley. “The census problem started before the pandemic,” said Villacis. “Then, with the arrival of the pandemic, the problem worsened but was used as an excuse to justify delays and interventions.” In April, Bolivia postponed the census planned for 2022 to no sooner than 2024. Fabián Yaksic, former director of the Departmental Autonomy Service of La Paz  and now an independent consultant, said that while the health emergency is the major factor in Bolivia’s move, there’s a potential political dimension to the decision: A new census could reveal population growth in areas that generally oppose the current socialist-led government, such as the heavily urbanized region of Santa Cruz. In April, the governor-elect of the Santa Cruz region, Luis Fernando Camacho, declared to the local press that postponing the Census was a “de facto confiscation of resources that correspond to the regions.” “Any delay in knowing population data implies that municipal governments must support public investment and municipal services to a larger population with the same resources as 10 years ago or more,” Yaksic said. Another country that also delayed its 2020 census was Chile. According to Del Popolo, the country was well advanced in its planning and the reasons for the delay were in fact due to the difficulties imposed by the pandemic. Chile has one of the world’s highest vaccination rates, with more than 70% of the population having received one dose, but infections have spiked once again in the past month. But in other countries, the census slowdown may signal something more troubling — an accelerating loss of once-public knowledge, Villacis said. In the case of Brazil, the data delay means that the cascade of miseries unleashed by the pandemic, including data on rising poverty and the return of widespread hunger, could remain partially hidden from lawmakers and citizens alike. Private institutes might compile some of that data, but not all of it, he said. “If you attack the statistical offices, serious social problems will no longer be measured.”

Potent methane plumes have been detected in a key coal mining district in Australia, one of the world’s biggest exporters of the commodity, underscoring the fossil fuel’s role in exacerbating climate change. Clouds of the invisible greenhouse gas, which is over 80 times more powerful than carbon dioxide at warming the Earth in its first couple decades in the atmosphere, were spotted near multiple mines last month, an analysis of European Space Agency satellite data by geoanalytics firm Kayrros SAS showed.

SAP SE said that its business-travel unit started to see signs of recovery, and the company slightly raised its estimates for full-year cloud sales and profit after its push to get more enterprise customers on its Rise program picked up pace. The company’s Concur business, which helps users book business travel and suffered during pandemic restrictions, saw “the first signs of recovery” and stabilizing performance in the quarter, Walldorf, Germany-based SAP said in a statement on Wednesday. Still, the business is unlikely to recover to its pre-pandemic levels this year, Chief Executive Officer Christian Klein said in an interview on Bloomberg TV.

Senate Republicans are set to thwart Majority Leader Chuck Schumer’s bid to start Senate debate Wednesday on a still-unfinished infrastructure plan, but key GOP lawmakers said that the deal is not dead and that they will be ready to move ahead next week. Schumer’s decision to force an early test vote Wednesday afternoon spurred a faster pace in protracted talks for a $579 billion infrastructure plan, but not the completed deal that GOP senators are demanding as a prerequisite to begin debate.

Sign up for the New Economy Daily newsletter, follow us @economics and subscribe to our podcast. Australian household spending recorded its largest monthly decline this year as the early impact of coronavirus lockdowns took a toll on consumption.

It might seem contradictory to invest in carbon-emitting polluters while pledging to be an eco-trailblazer, but that’s exactly what Singapore state investor Temasek Holdings Pte is attempting to do. As one of the world’s largest institutional investors, its $282 billion portfolio is replete with businesses that contribute to global warming -- from Singapore Airlines Ltd. to Sembcorp Marine Ltd., a supplier of offshore rigs. While peers like Norway’s sovereign wealth fund have used hard targets and the sale of assets to improve their green credentials, Temasek is taking a different path.

Joe and I have  pointed out before that on a longer-term chart the move lower in U.S. Treasury yields doesn’t look so odd. In fact, it’s the sharp upwards move that starts to look weird. As Joe  mentioned before, the move upwards that took place between the  U.S. presidential election in November and early in the Spring coincided with a Democratic sweep of Georgia and the flipping of the Senate into Democratic control. That set off a ton of speculation that Democrats would push through a fiscal-heavy agenda — all while the Federal Reserve kept policy relatively easy, which contributed to expectations for higher growth and more inflation and therefore higher yields at the long-end.The Bear Traps report points out that higher yields as politicians coalesce around an agenda isn’t necessarily a new dynamic. In fact they say the yield curve has a history of steepening as control of the U.S. government shifts from two parties to one party. That’s exactly what happened in late 2016, when President Donald Trump won the presidency with Republicans in control of both the Senate and the House of Representatives.You can see the dynamic from the (rough) chart below, which shows bond yields moving up when there’s a big spike in Republican or Democrat confidence, according to the Michigan survey of consumers (which I’ve used as a proxy for the parties securing greater control). Of course, the opposite move can also happen when a party loses control — with bond yields heading lower after the GOP lost control of Congress in late 2018.

Hiram Lodge, the manipulative crime lord who targets the fictional town of Riverdale, sits back in his office chair. After plotting his latest scheme with a cohort over submarine sandwiches, he takes a bite of a Doritos chip, holding the bag in clear view of the camera while looking away pensively. Frito-Lay, which got the snack on the CW Network’s teen drama Riverdale with the help of the No. 1 product placement company BEN, hopes audiences noticed enough to crave their own bag of Doritos, but not so much that they became annoyed. That’s the delicate balance companies strike when using product placement, which is becoming an even more popular form of advertising thanks to factors including increasingly sophisticated data collection and the rise of streaming and mobile video. Linear television, the old-school version of programming in which viewers have to be on their sofas at a scheduled time, is becoming an activity of the past, reducing promotional opportunities for brands. Meanwhile, more people are tuning in to Netflix or other streaming services that eschew conventional ads. “If I’m starting to cobble together my viewing experience as a series of streaming services, I potentially don’t get exposed to traditional television advertising anymore,” says David Schweidel, a marketing professor at Emory University. “So product placement becomes the way of cutting down the cost associated with production when you don’t have advertising to support you.” To do that, product placement is morphing into a more tech-focused and targeted business that can mesh nicely with the data-driven strategies that have proved so successful for digital marketing companies such as  Facebook Inc. and  Google. While advertisers still try to weave their products into the fabric of a film or TV show’s plot, a lot more is happening behind the scenes to guarantee those marketing dollars will turn into a sale. For one, entertainment consumers are naturally separating themselves into smaller, like-minded groups. Twentieth century viewers tuned in en masse to a few evening network TV programs, meaning ad placements were largely a game of reaching an enormous number of people while hoping to resonate with a few. But 21st century viewers often let a Netflix or TikTok algorithm suggest what to watch next, meaning advertising opportunities can be smaller-scale but reach a more-tailored audience. 2020 movies by product placement value Data: Concave Brand Tracking Product placement value determined by number of viewers, time onscreen, and prominence Advancing technology also helps. BEN has developed, through artificial intelligence and machine learning, the ability to fairly accurately determine which new TV shows will become hits. The team communicates that to Frito-Lay and other companies looking to gain visibility for their brands or products via Hollywood. The company, owned by Microsoft Inc. founder Bill Gates, also plans to partner with data company 605, which captures information from set-top boxes and smart TVs. With that information in hand, a company like BEN has new digitally enabled flexibility. People watching the exact same scene of the same show may be advertised different products, depending on who and where they are. Hiram Lodge was eating a bag of Doritos, but it’s possible to digitally swap that bag with Ruffles, if that brand better caters to the personal taste of the viewer. “If you’re able to navigate the content, and you have the technology to be able to figure out to prioritize and predict how to best target your audience, you can literally have the impact of a Super Bowl ad every week,” says Ricky Ray Butler, the chief executive officer of BEN. “There’s seriously that much content that is out there.” Product placement could benefit from another challenge in the advertising world: consumer pushback against hypertargeted online ads. Just as viewers are increasingly intolerant of having a TV show interrupted for ad breaks—and willing to pay for ad-free versions of streaming services—they’re also growing weary of feeling dogged for weeks by digital ads associated with things they search for on platforms like Google and Facebook.  Apple Inc. has started to  limit such hyperfocused advertising, and others may follow suit, offering product placement yet another opportunity to break ground. “Consumers are getting wise to it, and that’s why, I think, Apple was the first one” to crack down, says Allen Adamson, co-founder of marketing company Metaforce. “Product placement can be more natural, and part of what marketers are searching for is authenticity.” Global product placement spending is projected to rise 13.8%, to $23.3 billion, in 2021 from a year earlier. During the same period, overall marketing spending is expected to rise only 5.9%, to $1.35 trillion, according to data from researcher PQ Media. The more the technique is used, the more marketers are able to determine whether the messaging worked. In a 2019 study, Schweidel and Indiana University professor Beth Fossen found they could track product placement in TV shows with an uptick in social media chatter and web traffic to the companies. BEN studies what consumer opinions of brands are after they’ve been exposed to product placement, but is trying to sift through huge amounts of data to get more precise readings. BEN is also working to measure how the practice stimulates retail foot traffic and ultimately in-store purchases. “So long as we continue to see positive returns from paid product placement, and consumer behavior continues to pivot toward media consumption in ad-free/ad-light environments, I would anticipate more investment will follow,” James Clarke, a senior director of media strategy at Frito-Lay North America, said in an email. Still, more data-driven hypertargeting of product placement could stoke the same kind of consumer pushback that online digital ads have received. CEO Butler is aware the practice could cause some discomfort, especially when it’s bankrolled by Gates, one of the 10 richest people on Earth. But he says that the complex data his company uses to help marketers is all about explaining how groups—rather than individuals—react, while conceding that his focus is on ensuring his company’s product placements turn into sales. “It’s the next frontier of advertising,” Butler says. “Because of all this data, you can get way more impact and guarantees that people are actually seeing the content you’re in.”

Welcome to Thursday, Asia. Here’s the latest news and analysis from Bloomberg Economics to help you start the day:

Senate Republicans blocked debate on a vast and still-unfinished infrastructure plan, rejecting Majority Leader Chuck Schumer’s drive to forge ahead while negotiators from both parties struggle to complete details of the $579 billion package. The 49-51 vote fell well shy of the 60 needed to begin debate. Schumer switched his vote to “no” so he can call up the bill again.

Verizon Communications Inc. exceeded wireless-subscriber growth estimates for the second quarter, with promotions for new phones helping the carrier in the race to sign up customers for new, faster 5G services. Verizon signed up 528,000 regular monthly subscribers in the quarter, the New York-based company said in a statement Wednesday, beating the 360,400 average analyst estimate. Profit rose to $1.37 a share, excluding some items, topping the $1.30 that analysts had expected on average, and the company raised its full-year earnings guidance.

Texas Instruments Inc. gave a revenue forecast for the current period that disappointed some investors, raising concerns that a jump in chip demand caused by the pandemic will be short-lived. The stock fell in early U.S. trading.Sales will be $4.4 billion to $4.76 billion in the period ending in September, Texas Instruments said Wednesday in a statement. Profit will be $1.87 to $2.13 a share, the company said. On average, analysts predicted profit of $1.97 a share and sales of $4.59 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Like other chipmakers, Texas Instruments has posted multiple quarters of double-digit percentage revenue growth, boosted by demand for a wide variety of devices that contain its tiny electronic components. The rapid run-up has caused speculation among analysts and investors that some of the orders reflect panic buying by customers who have grown anxious they won’t be able get enough supply. Such behavior in the past has caused crashes.

Harley-Davidson Inc. tumbled the most in more than five months after warnings of supply-chain bottlenecks and tight motorcycle inventory overshadowed better-than-expected second-quarter profit. Cost cuts and a post-pandemic sales rebound in the U.S. helped Harley beat Wall Street estimates. But Chief Executive Officer Jochen Zeitz warned that chip shortages and shipping delays are hampering efforts to replenish motorcycle inventories after last year’s pandemic shutdowns.

South African government, business and labor leaders are discussing the payment of a relief grant to alleviate suffering after the worst unrest since the end of apartheid. While labor and business leaders recognize the need for some assistance after the riots, there is a debate over whether the stipend should be temporary or the start of a form of a basic income grant. The violence that began after the imprisonment of former President Jacob Zuma left at least 234 people dead, devastated businesses and put jobs at risk.

The largest U.S. technology companies continued to spend millions on lobbying last quarter, seeking to sway legislation intended to bolster antitrust enforcement and force other changes on the industry. Apple Inc. increased its spending to $1.64 million in the second quarter, up 12.3% from the previous quarter. Amazon Inc.’s total increased by 1.3% to $4.86 million. Lobbying expenditures by Microsoft Corp. dipped slightly, down 4.6% to $2.47 million and Facebook Inc. mostly held steady at $4.77 million. Alphabet Inc.’s Google spent $2.09 million, down 22.3% from last quarter, but up 23.7% from last year.

A wall hoarding about 20-meters tall with an advertisement by South Africa’s oldest burial house, Avbob, looms over people entering downtown Johannesburg. “Standing strong for our people. We are here for you. Since 1918,” it reads. In the city center, which was among sites hit by last week’s unrest, there are signs for funeral-cover packages everywhere in the midst of hawkers selling chicken kebabs, corn on the cob, electronics, fresh fruit, clothes and wigs. In a store front, employees of insurance company Two Mountains said its agents across the city have been handing out flyers with plans that include a “prince dome cherry casket.” Across the street, a grocery shop has a sign in the doorway offering funeral insurance for as little as 2 rand ($0.14) a day.  Airwaves are flooded with burial-cover ads and supermarket chains like Shoprite are bombarding clients with offers of funeral help to shop with them.

Suzuki Motor Corp. and Daihatsu Motor Co. are investing in a Toyota Motor Corp. entity to bring electrification and autonomous driving to commercial vehicles, deepening ties between the automakers. They will join Isuzu Motors Ltd. and Hino Motors Ltd., Toyota’s truck and bus unit, which formed the venture earlier this year. Suzuki and Daihatsu will acquire a 10% stake in the partnership from Toyota, they said in a statement Wednesday, without disclosing the amount.

Lumber futures rose, posting the biggest percentage gain in more than a year on concern that wildfires in western Canada will reduce supply and spur more curtailments at sawmills. British Columbia, Canada’s biggest exporter of lumber to the U.S., declared a state of emergency, and Canfor Corp. said it would trim output as the fires snarl transportation and supply chains. Lumber jumped 7.7% in Chicago, the largest advance for a most-active contract since April 2020. The price is still more than 60% below the record-high reached in May.

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi rejected two Republicans selected by House GOP leader Kevin McCarthy for a committee to investigate the Jan. 6 insurrection at the U.S. Capitol, sparking a threat by the chamber’s top Republican to pull out of the inquiry entirely. Pelosi, who has final say over the 13-member committee’s composition, said she informed McCarthy she wouldn’t accept his recommendation that Representatives Jim Jordan of Ohio and Jim Banks of Indiana join the panel and requested he select two new members.

EBay Inc. and former top executives were sued for allegedly running a bizarre cyber-campaign to “terrorize, stalk and silence” a suburban Boston blogger and her husband who were critical of the e-commerce company. Ina and David Steiner claim they were left psychologically damaged from the 2019 cyberstalking operation, which they say included macabre anonymous deliveries such as a bloody pig mask, surveillance by eBay security executives and phony online ads designed to send strangers to their home for sex parties.

Chinese internet regulators slapped fines on technology firms including Tencent Holdings Ltd. and Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. for spreading sexually suggestive content involving children. Kuaishou Technology, Tencent’s QQ, Alibaba’s Taobao, Weibo Corp. and Little Red Book were ordered to remove the offending accounts and pay an unspecified amount in fines, the Cyberspace Administration of China said in a statement Tuesday. The penalties were issued as part of a campaign to tackle online content deemed “harmful to the physical and mental well-being of minors.”

A wildfire in the Sierra Nevada mountains of Northern California grew to more than 85,000 acres overnight with more than 800 structures threatened. The Dixie Fire, which PG&E Corp. said may have been sparked by one of its power lines, is about 15% contained and could expand by an additional 2 to 3 miles (3.2 to 4.8 kilometers) on Wednesday, according to a Twitter post by the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection.

Traders dealing in vegetable oil are scurrying to get a read on expectations that the world’s biggest supplier of soybean oil could ramp up exports by almost 10%. Argentina’s biofuels industry anticipates an additional 500,000 metric tons of soy oil being freed up for export after the South American nation approved a new law last week that cut the blend mandate in diesel fuel in half. That could impact the global market and Argentina, which shipped 5.36 million tons of the soybean extract last year:

Los Angeles (AP) -- Harvey Weinstein pleaded not guilty in a Los Angeles courtroom Wednesday to four counts of rape and seven other sexual assault counts. Sheriff’s deputies brought the 69-year-old convicted rapist into court in a wheelchair. He was wearing a brown jail jumpsuit and face mask. Attorney Mark Werksman entered the plea for the disgraced movie mogul a day after Weinstein was extradited to California from New York, where he was serving a 23-year prison term.

A widening conflict in northern Ethiopia displaced tens of thousands of people, after fighting spread from the Tigray region to neighboring Afar state, a government official said. The violence forced 54,000 people to flee their homes in Afar, adding to the more than 2 million who’ve been displaced since war erupted in Tigray in November. The unrest has curbed output in what was once Africa’s fastest-growing economy and contributed to the Ethiopian government’s announcement in January that it plans to seek debt relief from creditors.

Paris (AP) -- Visitors now need a special COVID-19 pass to ride up the Eiffel Tower or visit French museums or movie theaters, the first step in a new campaign against what the government calls a “stratospheric” rise in delta variant infections. As the new rule came into effect Wednesday, tourists who came to the Paris landmark unprepared lined up for quick virus tests at the site. To get the pandemic pass, people must show they are either fully vaccinated, have tested negative for the coronavirus or recovered from COVID-19.

Japan is set to make dramatic changes to how it generates electricity by the end of the decade, slashing its dependence on fossil fuels and upping its reliance on renewable energy in an ambitious effort to reduce emissions. Renewable energy, which includes solar, wind and hydropower, should make up more than a third of the nation’s power generation by the fiscal year starting April 2030, according to a draft report released Wednesday. That’s up from its previous target of less than a quarter. Hydrogen was also added to the mix for the first time.

Daimler AG said early-year growth for its main Mercedes-Benz division will be erased by the global semiconductor shortage that the luxury-car maker expects to put a damper on the second half. Mercedes car sales are now expected to be roughly flat this year rather than up significantly from 2020. The lack of chips will have an adverse impact on the business as the year progresses and visibility on how supply will develop is low, Daimler said Wednesday.

When  Moira Gilchrist was first approached by Philip Morris International Inc., she wondered what a tobacco company wanted from a scientist who had previously worked on clinical trials for anti-cancer drugs. The world’s largest cigarette maker was looking at ways of delivering nicotine in a product that reduced the harmful chemicals in smoking, and needed her expertise in navigating the highly regulated pharmaceutical industry. Gilchrist, a cigarette smoker at the time, made the leap in 2006 — to the shock of friends and colleagues — becoming one of the first people from the pharma sector to join Big Tobacco, viewed by many as the enemy of health.

Las Vegas Sands Corp., the big casino operator, fell in late trading after reporting second-quarter results that trailed Wall Street estimates, hurt by continued travel restrictions in Macau and Singapore. Adjusted property earnings came to $244 million, the company said Wednesday, short of the $290.6 million average of estimates compiled by Consensus Metrix. The adjusted loss per share totaled 26 cents, larger than the 17 cents analysts forecast.

Saudi Aramco confirmed that some company files were leaked after hackers reportedly demanded a $50 million ransom from the world’s most-valuable oil producer. “Aramco recently became aware of the indirect release of a limited amount of company data which was held by third-party contractors,” the Middle Eastern oil major said Wednesday in an email. “We confirm that the release of data was not due to a breach of our systems, has no impact on our operations, and the company continues to maintain a robust cybersecurity posture.”

Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen will have to manage two separate sets of delicate negotiations this fall around a global corporate-tax accord, each with clashing deadlines that could threaten the ultimate success of the deal. Group of 20 nations plan to finalize the details of a landmark global minimum tax and a rewrite of international tax rules at a summit in late October. That’s also right when congressional Democrats hope to be nearing passage of a $3.5 trillion bill that’s the party’s one shot to make much of President Joe Biden’s economic agenda a reality. Any change in the parameters in one negotiation risks jeopardizing the other deal.

Buenos Aires’s creditors are divided over a $7.1 billion debt restructuring proposal, signaling that Argentina’s largest province still has work to do to emerge from default. The province’s economy ministry issued a statement early Wednesday that it agreed with its biggest investor, GoldenTree Asset Management, and certain other creditors on terms and conditions. Other bondholders issued their own statement in the late afternoon, saying they weren’t part of the accord. That called into question how close the province is to successfully restructuring its debt.

Temporary may well extend into 2022. The outsize gains in U.S. inflation measures that exceeded forecasts over the last four months have been borne out in recent corporate earnings calls, with many executives highlighting greater pricing power.

KKR & Co. is creating a firm that will invest in diagnostic technologies such as Covid-19 tests, adding to its bets on fast-growing health-care companies. The new entity, Sapphiros, will be led by industry veteran Namal Nawana, KKR said Wednesday in a statement seen by Bloomberg. Nawana previously was chief executive officer of medical-device maker Smith & Nephew Plc and Alere Inc., a test provider that Abbott Laboratories acquired in 2017.

HSBC Holdings Plc, Bank of China Ltd.’s Hong Kong unit and at least two other major lenders stopped providing mortgages to buyers of China Evergrande Group’s unfinished residential properties in Hong Kong, the latest sign of dwindling confidence in the developer’s financial strength. The lenders, which also include Hang Seng Bank and Bank of East Asia, suspended new mortgages for Evergrande’s two projects under construction in Hong Kong after re-evaluating the risks of such loans, people familiar with the matter said, asking not to be identified discussing private information.

President Joe Biden will convene industry leaders late next month to discuss strategies for confronting the growing threat of cyberattacks, according to a spokesperson for the White House National Security Council. The meeting, scheduled for Aug. 25, will take place after several disabling assaults underscored the vulnerability of companies and other institutions, including hospitals, to ransomware crews -- many of whom operate in countries that have strained relations with the U.S. -- and the urgency of a broad, robust response.

Credit Suisse Group AG banker Homan Milani has resigned, the latest in at least 30 senior departures, according to people with knowledge of the matter. Milani is set to join Bank of America Corp., said some of the people, who requested anonymity discussing a move that isn’t yet public.

Citigroup Inc. is building a pipeline of emerging-nation clients who see bond sales as a way to meet sustainable development goals. Fresh from managing such offerings for Benin and Uzbekistan last week, the bank anticipates marketing similar deals in the second half, Philip Brown, head of public sector debt capital markets at Citi, said in an interview.

Sign up for the New Economy Daily newsletter, follow us @economics and subscribe to our podcast. A rally in Swedish home prices that made its housing market one of the world’s frothiest is reigniting political calls to remove a controversial tax perk seen as part of the problem.

A push by Democrats to tighten market rules in response to the implosion of Archegos Capital Management and this year’s meme-stock mania is gaining traction in the U.S. House. The Financial Services Committee, led by Representative Maxine Waters of California, may hold votes as soon as next week on legislation that could have broad consequences for hedge funds, online brokers and powerful trading firms, said people familiar with her plans.

Puerto Rico’s largest truck-driver’s union began an indefinite strike Wednesday, demanding increased cargo rates on the island where 80% of all food is imported. Edwin Marrero, the president of the Truckers Broad Front union, said the group hopes to begin negotiations with the federally-appointed Fiscal Oversight and Management Board that controls the bankrupt island’s finances.

Washington (AP) -- Lagging vaccination rates among nursing home staff are being linked to a national increase in COVID-19 infections and deaths at senior facilities, and are at the center of a federal investigation in a hard-hit Colorado location where disease detectives found many workers were not inoculated. The investigation by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention of facilities in the Grand Junction, Colorado, area raises concerns among public health doctors that successes in protecting vulnerable elders with vaccines could be in peril as the more aggressive delta variant spreads across the country.

More than 2 billion tons of food goes uneaten around the world, almost double than previously thought, according to a new report. An estimated 2.5 billion tons of food was lost on farms or wasted by retailers or consumers globally, accounting for about 40% of production, according to research by World Wildlife Fund and U.K. retailer Tesco Plc. The figure tops the previous estimates by about 1.2 billion tons, with farming in wealthier countries being a bigger offender than assumed, they said in a report.

Israel’s Prime Minister Naftali Bennett urged other nations to join with his country in building an international platform for defusing cyber attacks. A global cyber shield is the best defense against hackers, Bennett, a former cyber security entrepreneur, said Wednesday at a digital security conference in Tel Aviv.

South Africa’s environmental department has dispatched a team to the eastern coastal city of Durban to try and help contain air and water pollution from a chemicals plant that was set alight during violent protests. The plant, owned by Indian agro-chemical firm UPL Ltd., produces herbicides, fungicides and pesticides and is situated in one of the areas hit hardest by days of rioting and looting across the KwaZulu-Natal province. Residents, already struggling to get bread, milk and other basics after the unrest, reported seeing plumes of gray smoke near the facility site.

Inflation took a toll on the U.K. public finances last month, driving interest payments on government debt to unprecedented levels. The Treasury paid 8.7 billion pounds ($11.8 billion) in interest in June, the most for any month since records began in 1997, the Office for National Statistics said on Wednesday. The 6 billion-pound increase from a year ago was due to higher retail-price inflation pushing up the cost of servicing index-linked gilts.

Disgraced diamond tycoon Nirav Modi’s extradition to India would severely impact his mental health and be a “flagrant denial of justice,” his lawyers said at a London court hearing. Modi is accused of defrauding Punjab National Bank of $2 billion over seven years. The one-time billionaire applied to the U.K. High Court to appeal his extradition on the basis he wouldn’t receive a fair trial in India.

The 147 Republicans who voted against certifying President Joe Biden’s victory are still feeling the sting of decreased support from corporations, a review of second quarter Federal Election Commission filings shows. Those Republicans saw a 31% decline in contributions from other committees, including corporate political action committees, in the first half of this year compared to the same period in 2019, the most recent non-election year. But lobbying groups and companies that depend on government spending revived or maintained their support of lawmakers regardless of any position the recipients had on the 2020 election. The top donors to the House members who refused to finalize the election for Biden after supporters of then-President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol were the American Crystal Sugar Company PAC, which gave $160,000,; the General Dynamics Corp. PAC, which donated $88,500, the Council of Insurance Agents & Brokers PAC, which gave $87,500 and the National Association of Realtors PAC, which gave $86,500. Dozens of businesses and trade associations announced they would pause giving or review of their contribution policies in the wake of the Jan. 6 riot. But many groups have quietly resumed giving, including to the election objectors. Others made no changes to their policies and continued to donate to members who aligned with their interests. The top 10 largest donors included three defense contractors whose business is based on government contracts. Lockheed Martin Corp. announced a suspension in giving but resumed in April. General Dynamics never said it would stop its donations. L3Harris Technologies Inc. declined to comment on its PAC’s policies. FEC records show it began giving on March 18. Top business PAC donors to Republicans who opposed election result Source: Federal Election Commission filings Note: Through June 30, 2021 Financed by voluntary donations from company employees, corporate PACs generally give to both Republicans and Democrats when it benefits the company’s regulatory agenda. General Dynamics said in its most recent corporate sustainability report that it “participates in the U.S. political process when it is in the best interests of shareholders, businesses and employees to do so.” Ken Calvert Photographer: Tom Williams/CQ-Roll Call Group/Getty Images The defense giant tied for second with $85,500 in PAC contributions. Lockheed Martin gave $77,500 and L3Harris Technologies gave $70,000. Representative Ken Calvert of California, the top Republican on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, received contributions from all three, totaling $22,000, the most received by any of the objectors. “Our PAC program will continue to observe the long-standing principles of non-partisan political engagement in support of our business interests,” Lockheed Martin said in a statement. A spokesman for General Dynamics declined to comment, and L3Harris Technologies did not respond to a request for comment. Earlier: Toyota Revives Donations Ban to Republicans Who Opposed Election Unlike lobbying groups and defense contractors, so-called consumer-facing companies have to weigh potential public reaction with their political interests when making donations. Social media users unleashed harsh criticism of Toyota Motor Corp. after it resumed contributions. The company said it wouldn’t judge members of Congress “solely based on their votes on the electoral certification” and its PAC donated $85,500 to Republicans who voted against ratifying Biden’s win, ranking them fifth. The automaker’s donations, first reported by Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, led to the hashtag, #ToyotaHatesDemocracy. On July 8, the company announced that it would no longer donate to Republicans who objected to Biden’s win. The PAC for the American Crystal Sugar Company, an agricultural cooperative whose members include beet sugar producers in the Midwest, doled out $160,000 to 31 of the objecting members, including maximum $10,000 contributions to Representatives Kat Cammack of Florida, Michael Cloud of Texas and Tracey Mann of Kansas, all members of the House Agriculture Committee. Federal programs that benefit American sugar producers include federal loans, import quotas and other mechanisms that support the price of the commodity, according to the Congressional Research Service. American Crystal, which said in January it would not base its contribution decisions on the certification vote, did not respond to a request for comment. Read More: GOP Lawmakers Targeted by Trump Are Outraising Their Challengers The National Association of Realtors paused all donations in the wake of the Jan. 6 riots, but resumed donations in April, including to the 147 objectors. It tied with General Dynamics, donating $85,500 to 53 of them. The realtors’ PAC, one of the biggest donors, also gave to Democrats and other Republicans.“This decision will ensure we continue to engage with political candidates to support America’s homeowners and our nation’s real estate industry,” the National Association of Realtors said in a statement.

Stellantis NV Chief Executive Officer Carlos Tavares warned the auto giant is feeling the strain from rising raw material prices and expects semiconductor shortages to stretch into next year. “I see the inflationary pressure very clearly,” he said on a webinar organized by the Detroit-based Automotive Press Association. “I see inflation coming from many different areas.”

SoftBank Group Corp. is leading a 175 million reais ($33.5 million) funding round in Cobli, a Brazilian logistics startup, adding another firm to its flurry of deals in the country. SoftBank’s Latin America Fund is joined by Qualcomm Ventures in the fundraising, as well as current Cobli shareholders including Valor Capital, co-founder Rodrigo Mourad said in an interview. He and Parker Treacy created Cobli in 2017.

Washington (AP) -- The Kennedy Center Honors will return in December with a class that includes Motown Records creator Berry Gordy, “Saturday Night Live” mastermind Lorne Michaels and actress-singer Bette Midler. Organizers expect to operate at full capacity, after last year’s ceremony was delayed for months and later conducted under COVID-19 restrictions. This 44th class of honorees for lifetime achievement in the creative arts is heavy on musical performers. The honorees also include opera singer Justino Diaz and folk music legend Joni Mitchell.

Sign up for the New Economy Daily newsletter, follow us @economics and subscribe to our podcast. The Philippines has room to cut banks’ reserve requirement ratio as the economy recovers from the effects of the pandemic, Finance Secretary Carlos Dominguez said Wednesday.

Viveo, a distributor of medical supplies indirectly controlled by Brazil’s billionaire Bueno family, has revived its plans to go public, according to people familiar with the matter. Viveo, formerly known as CM Hospitalar, is planning to relaunch its IPO in August or September, said the people, asking not to be named because the information isn’t public.

Drug maker Johnson & Johnson and three opioid distributors agreed to pay a combined $26 billion to resolve thousands of state and local government lawsuits over the handling of addictive painkillers that created a U.S. public-health crisis. The landmark deal -- years in the making -- calls for McKesson Corp., Cardinal Health Inc. and AmerisourceBergen Corp. to pay almost $21 billion to resolve allegations they turned a blind eye to suspiciously large opioid shipments, the companies and state attorneys general said Wednesday. J&J will pay $5 billion to settle claims it illegally marketed opioids, which it stopped making last year.

Brazil President Jair Bolsonaro, under pressure from lawmakers who are investigating his government’s handling of the pandemic, is preparing changes to some cabinet positions to accommodate a representative from the senate. Senator Ciro Nogueira, a leader of the powerful group of centrist parties in congress, will likely become Bolsonaro’s chief of staff, replacing General Luiz Eduardo Ramos, who’s bound to become his secretary general, according to two people familiar with the matter.

(AP) -- Julia Ducournau's “Titane,” a wild body-horror thriller featuring sex with a car and a surprisingly tender heart, won the Palme d’Or at the Cannes Film Festival, making Ducournau just the second female filmmaker to win the festival’s top honor in its 74 year history. The win on Saturday was mistakenly announced by jury president Spike Lee at the top of the closing ceremony, broadcast in France on Canal+, unleashing a few moments of confusion. Ducournau, a French filmmaker, didn't come to the stage to accept the award until the formal announcement at the end of the ceremony. But the early hint didn't diminish from her emotional response.

Shares in Japanese homebuilder Tama Home Co. plunged in Tokyo on Wednesday after reports the firm’s president told employees they’d be punished if they got coronavirus vaccines. Weekly magazine Shukan Bunshun, citing several unidentified workers, reported that President Shinya Tamaki told managers that he opposed coronavirus vaccines. The report said Tamaki warned that people who received the vaccine would die in five years, while internal e-mails told employees of the reported dangers of 5G phones.

Just 17 years after Liverpool was listed as a World Heritage site by Unesco, the United Nations organization has stripped the U.K. city of its status.  Major redevelopment along Maritime Mercantile City, a waterfront collection of quays, warehouses and grand shipping institutions built during Liverpool’s heyday as a global port in the 18th, 19th and early 20th centuries, has proved “detrimental to the site’s authenticity and integrity,” Unesco says. Now no longer possessing the coherence for which it was recognized in 2004, the Maritime Mercantile City has joined Dresden’s Elbe Valley  and Oman’s Arabian Oryx Sanctuary to become one of just three World Heritage sites ever to be deleted from the Unesco list. The move, announced this week after a secret ballot during a Unesco meeting in Fuzhou, China, did not exactly come as a surprise: The group placed Liverpool on its World Heritage in Danger list in 2012, while public concerns about the waterfront’s preservation date back at least as far  as 2009, when a new ferry terminal won Britain’s Carbuncle Cup for ugliest new building. At the heart of Unesco’s concerns is a 5 billion pound ($6.8 billion) waterfront redevelopment project known as “Liverpool Waters.” Piloted by the Peel Group — once referred to by Britain’s Independent newspaper as “the biggest company you’ve never heard of” — the project promised to transform the waterfront into a U.K. version of Shanghai’s Pudong, where gleaming new skyscrapers overlook a historic core. This prospect proved alarming to many critics of the project in Liverpool as well, who fear the planned towers would sit poorly with the rest of the area. England’s national historic preservation body, English Heritage, said that the development would “overwhelm the historic, horizontal character of the docklands” and suggested that the national government should consider overruling the city’s planning approval. Others fret that the development reflects now-outdated pre-pandemic assumptions about the lack of prime office space in the city. Further concerns were raised by the approval of a new waterfront stadium for Everton Football Club. Local reaction to the Unesco delisting so far has largely been defiant. Steve Rotheram, Metro Mayor of the Liverpool City Region, commented that, with their overzealous attitude, Unesco’s “risk rendering themselves irrelevant,” and that while Liverpool did not want to lose its listing, the city could not “allow that status to preserve our region in aspic, while the world evolves around us.” The city’s Chamber of Commerce said that the listing could not be maintained “at the expense of developing our city for the benefit of future generations,” while the city council tweeted that Liverpool was “not defined by labels.” Others note that Unesco seems to show little concern for Liverpool’s economic health, and is objecting to buildings that will be constructed on what is currently derelict land. In a blog post, City of Liverpool Mayor Joanne Anderson pointed out that 700 million pounds has been plowed into historical preservation projects over the past decade, and, despite repeated invitations and significant changes to the plans for Liverpool Waters, a full Unesco mission has not visited the site since 2011. “It’s clear now” she wrote, “that UNESCO didn’t want to see. Or listen. Or engage.” There is still no avoiding the fact that the de-listing is a blow for the city, and for the U.K. itself. And for observers beyond Liverpool, the decision opens a wider debate on whether new development, good or bad, is a genuine threat to heritage. The Liverpool waterfront itself, after all, is not a unified architectural set piece, but the accretion of generations of growth. It houses structures intended to be grand and opulent — notably the so-called Three Graces, a trio of monumental early 20th century stone buildings that give the waterfront its unmistakeable skyline — and many others intended to be strictly utilitarian — warehouses that have since been restored and repurposed as art galleries, studios, homes and offices. The district also has wastelands of parking lot and indifferent contemporary buildings erected before 2004 here and there. While it has beauty and charisma, few would argue that it’s akin to Venice. (Though, in The Spectator, design critic Stephen Bayley does.) But it has never tried to be. Looking back over Unesco’s track record, the organization does seem to struggle with the dynamics of urban settings. On its list of 14 primary threats to heritage sites, menaces like environmental degradation and pollution appear alongside encroachment from newer structures and skyline changes from residential or commercial development — all very likely to occur in an economically vibrant city. Cities often agree to follow height restrictions as part of the terms of accepting World Heritage status. In 2017, Vienna was placed on Unesco’s endangered list, for example, after plans emerged for a tall-ish tower that would have interfered with views of city’s historic center.  It still seems significant that the only other European World Heritage site to have been de-listed was also in a major city undergoing redevelopment — Dresden’s Elbe Valley. This was removed from the list in 2009 due to the addition of a (beautiful) road bridge over the river’s flood meadows, even though the area’s character was, like Liverpool’s waterfront, the product of several centuries celebrated partly for works of industrial-era engineering. It is perhaps understandable that Unesco felt that Liverpool’s development aspirations were working against its preservation obligations. For cities seeking to both spur economic growth and protect their existing World Heritage status, the decision will likely be met with some ambivalence.

The Bank of Canada has promoted Sharon Kozicki to deputy governor, bringing its governing council to six people next month. The Ottawa-based central bank said Wednesday that Kozicki, currently an adviser at the bank, will assume the role on Aug. 2. Kozicki will share responsibility for overseeing the bank’s financial system activities until Carolyn Rogers starts in her job as top deputy on Dec. 15.

A Singapore court on Wednesday ruled in favor of liquidating Hyflux Ltd., following a years-long saga in one of the city-state’s most high-profile distressed cases. The ruling came in a hearing that was adjourned from July 12 after Utico FZC, one of Hyflux’s suitors, asked to be heard on its application to intervene in the case. Hyflux said last month the judicial manager terminated discussions with United Arab Emirates-based Utico as it was unable to meet the conditions required.

Perhaps, in retrospect, it was foolish to ever think of the world in black-and-white terms during the age of Covid-19. Yet that’s the trap so many of us fell into, whether corner-suite executives planning a workforce’s return, decision makers in government, or investors trying to get in front of wherever the markets decide to go next. The scintillating vision of the dark era of Covid lockdowns quickly giving way to a  bright, vaccinated future was simply too enticing to resist. But, at the moment, a much-less-satisfying reality is settling in: a sort of  gray area between full recovery and the lockdown-era doldrums as the virus stages a fresh assault on the unvaccinated, and its relentless mutations raise questions even for those who’ve gotten their shots. Consider the mixed messages in the past week as the midway point approaches for a summer heralded as the start of a new roaring ‘20s, at least in the U.S. and much of Europe. Britain celebrated the easing of Covid restrictions on July 19 in what was branded “Freedom Day.” Yet its prime minister was  locked up in quarantine, and U.S. officials issued a stern warning for Americans to  stay away from the U.K. because the virus was raging there again. Los Angeles  reinstated indoor mask mandates, while New York  declined to do the same. As “back to school” signs began popping up at stores,  Apple Inc. pushed back its deadline for employees to  return to the office. In Tokyo, the buzz is about which Olympic athletes have  caught the virus instead of which ones will wear the most medals. For those who trust the alleged wisdom of crowds in the financial markets, the picture is foggy. Benchmark indexes took a dip in the middle of July, though they got a partial rebound with a  strong rally on July 20. Even before that, share prices had been slumping for companies expected to reap the biggest windfalls from a post-Covid boom—and not just for the likes of airlines, cruise lines, and hotel companies, but also for banks, energy producers, and wide swaths of the small-cap market. Unprofitable companies—stocks that are popular when the appetite for speculative, risky investments is strong—have been among the worst hit. “Obviously the bond markets are suggesting to us that there’s some weakness in growth” The prognosis from the bond market arguably has been even more worrying for equity investors seeking a second opinion. Early in the year, as optimism spread that vaccines would unleash bottled-up consumer savings and demand to create a prolonged expansion, investors sold off the safest of assets such as Treasuries, pushing the yield on the 10-year note up to 1.74% by the end of March. Yet they’ve been returning to that haven ever since, bidding bond prices back up and dragging the yield back down closer to 1%. In general, booming bond markets are a  sign of pessimism. “Obviously the bond markets are suggesting to us that there’s some weakness in growth, and that is linked to the delta variant” of the coronavirus, Katie Koch, co-head of fundamental equities at  Goldman Sachs Asset Management, told Bloomberg TV on July 20. Yet to her and many of her peers, the signals being sent by corporate America are more positive and stronger than the bond market’s. As second-quarter earnings start trickling in—with about one-tenth of the companies in the S&P 500 reporting results so far—the early read is encouraging: More than 86% of the companies that have reported have beaten analyst estimates, and profit growth is clocking in at a breathtaking 141%, according to Bloomberg data. Still, that growth compares to the second quarter of 2020, when Covid’s grip on the economy was  tightest. But to Koch and many of her peers, just because the results will probably mark the recovery’s peak, there’s no reason to give up on equities now. Although the growth that’s to follow will be less dazzling, it’s still significant. S&P 500 companies are forecast to boost profits by more than 10% in both 2022 and 2023, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Digging deeper into the signals being sent by financial markets, there aren’t yet any major warning signs to suggest that the delta variant—or  whatever mutations might follow—will be enough to snuff out the recovery. Economic models based on market inputs show that the chance of another recession in the near future is very slim. A model created by Bloomberg strategist Cameron Crise puts the probability of recession in the next 12 months at just 7%. Frothy valuations do give many fundamentally minded investors reason for caution. And the gray area of the post-Covid world is engulfing the playing field when it comes to both monetary stimulus from the Federal Reserve and fiscal spending stimulus from Congress—the two forces that brought the economy and the markets back from the brink last year. The pickup in short-term inflation has been  stronger than many expected, and provides talking points to argue against further stimulus for both Fed policymakers and politicians launching midterm-election campaigns in the coming months. (How severe a threat the delta variant poses to those talking points is anyone’s guess.) Undeniably, investors’ buy-the-dip instinct—honed by the experience of 2020—appears to be as  alive as ever. The July 20 rebound echoed one that followed a similar episode of jitters in June. That shouldn’t be too surprising, given how much cash American consumers and businesses have  socked away in the past 16 months. The personal savings rate in the U.S. averaged less than 7.5% in the five years before Covid hit. After surging to as high as 33.7% in April 2020, it’s still elevated at 12.4%. Before the pandemic, it hadn’t been that high since the early 1980s. Some $4.5 trillion remains stowed away in money market mutual funds, earning basically nothing. That amount has come down from its peak, but is still about one-quarter higher than before the pandemic. Another $17 trillion is on deposit with commercial banks, a record amount that’s 33% higher than at the same time of year in 2019. Where will all that cash get spent? Will there be splurges on airfare and hotels and gasoline for road trips? New return-to-work business attire in a larger size to accommodate waistlines that  grew a bit during the pandemic? Or will the re-emerging Covid threat mean it’s spent once again on sweatpants, Amazon impulse buys, streaming services, and maybe some furniture for the home office? For corporations, will their cash be put toward share buybacks, acquisitions, and research and development? Or used to keep the lights on in another dark period of Covid? The closely followed strategists at  JPMorgan Chase, led by Marko Kolanovic, say the market has overreacted to the threat of the delta variant. They argue that the latest flare-up of the virus should not lead to a return to lockdowns; while the  rise in cases is alarming, vaccinations have sharply cut the threat of death from the virus. And this should lead to a rebound in stocks that benefit from the reopening amid continued inflation and higher bond yields. For the non-pros, however, the sloppy summer market action provides a perfect time to reflect on the evergreen advice that diversification is the best way to avoid the heartburn that accompanies attempts to pick stocks that will beat the market. In other words: Just leave it in the index fund and enjoy what’s left of the summer. Read next: Ten Company Stocks to Watch in Q3 2021

(AP) -- Landscaping was hardly his lifelong dream. As a teenager, Alton Lucas believed basketball or music would pluck him out of North Carolina and take him around the world. In the late 1980s, he was the right-hand man to his musical best friend, Youtha Anthony Fowler, who many hip hop and R&B heads know as DJ Nabs.

Dan Purcell’s transformation into a content protection vigilante began several years ago, with a moment of personal reckoning. The Irish computer programmer was living in California when his girlfriend at the time persuaded him to perform live on Chaturbate, a site that hosts adult web shows. He did several webcasts with her before deciding it wasn’t for him. He moved on, went back to Ireland, and never thought about it again—until 2018, when his new girlfriend angrily presented him with the videos. “It was very embarrassing,” he says, “very, very, very humiliating.” Purcell had thought the videos would be streamed live, then disappear, but people had built programs to automatically record the webcam footage. He started a weekslong hunt for the culprits. Because he’d used his social media handle on Chaturbate—“I still want to beat myself upside the head for this”—he just searched for his own username, along with some obvious keywords. What he discovered was a sprawling online ecosystem of groups dedicated to reselling stolen adult content. And, eventually, a business opportunity. At first alone, then with a handful of part-time employees, Purcell began hiring himself out as a sleuth and enforcer, helping adult content creators find illegal copies of their photos and videos and get them taken down. Borrowing the Irish word for justice, he named his infant company Ceartas DMCA Ltd., with DMCA referring to the Digital Millennium Copyright Act. Purcell isn’t alone. As direct-to-consumer adult content has proliferated, an industry has emerged to try to police the piracy of it, including such services as DMCA.com, Rulta.com, and TakeDownPiracy.com. They’re filling a growing void at a moment when individuals have more power to create and post their own content online, but less power to control what happens to it. Figures like Purcell at times employ controversial methods: He says he once sifted through a 14-year-old’s Xbox Live account for personal details, then used the kid’s real name to pressure him into taking down stolen nudes and writing an apology letter. But his customers see him as their last, best option in an industry where tech platforms and the authorities can be slow to take action. Ceartas in particular owes its existence to  OnlyFans, a platform for creators to charge viewers for photos and videos. The company hosts a variety of people, from chefs to musicians to personal trainers, but its biggest stars are adult performers. OnlyFans, founded in London in 2016, has seen business  explode during the pandemic. Since 2019 the number of “fans” has increased more than tenfold to over 100 million, the company says. Last year, those fans paid about $2 billion for access to photos and videos, meaning OnlyFans took in about $400 million from its 20% cut. All told, creators on the site have made more than $4.5 billion, and more than 500 of them have individually made over $1 million.  OnlyFans is now said to be in talks to  raise funding at a valuation of more than $1 billion. But the skyward trajectory of OnlyFans and the rest of adult self-publishing is hindered by digital pirates, who force performers to compete with their own content elsewhere on the web for free. Take Joey Fisher. Since she was 19, she’s worked as what the British call a “glamour model”—a genteel term for entertainment that leaves little to the imagination. Fisher, 28, lives in Wales and joined OnlyFans about two years ago. The subscription fee ($15.40 a month for her channel) and tips from fans are generating the best income she’s ever made from modeling. Plus, she’s her own boss. The one problem, she says, is the piracy. A search for Fisher online produces dozens of porn web pages promoting images and videos ripped from her OnlyFans channel. Links promising stolen photos of her have proliferated on  Reddit, and chat platform  Discord servers tout access to images of her and other celebrity nudes for $9.99. Having her work reproduced always came with the territory. “Even when I shot for a magazine, those images would end up on porn websites or random forums,” she says. But because of Fisher’s time and investment in building her OnlyFans channel and expanding her subscriber base, the thefts bothered her that much more. “It’s your business, so the amount of time and effort that goes into it, and it just gets ripped off and put on the internet for free, it’s really infuriating,” Fisher says. When she would manage to get a photo taken down, it would just reappear elsewhere. “It’s just constantly search it, get it taken down, repeat.” Earlier this year, Fisher’s best friend recommended she contact Purcell, who, when he’s not pursuing adult content thieves, still works as an engineer at software company  ZenDesk Inc. They talked for an hour on the phone about the software Ceartas uses to trawl the web for pirated photos and how he adds some bite to warnings he sends to site hosts by invoking the DMCA. “Dan made me aware of multiple websites I’d never heard of before,” she says. She’s now one of Ceartas’s more than 60 clients, paying about $150 to $230 a month. Adult performers exist in a cultural and economic gray area. Because  Apple Inc. and  Google forbid erotic content apps on their platforms, OnlyFans is accessible only through a web browser, not a mobile device. Not having an app means that OnlyFans can’t build in certain protective features—like the tool  Netflix Inc. uses to black out a user’s screen when a clipping service is detected. Performers’ lone recourse is often to fill out a form on the company’s site registering their grievances. Purcell’s first big case after his own was in November 2020, when a sprawling data dump of stolen photos appeared on the  servers of Discord. The database leak, which mainly contained intimate pictures of Irish women, was massive and searchable. In a statement about the incident, Discord said it took “immediate action” and “banned every user account involved.” Watching it unfold, though, Purcell saw a need for his skills. He asked performers he knew for images—“Every third girl I know was probably on OnlyFans,” he says—and posted them to one of the Discord servers. As a contributor, he quickly gained the trust of the people running the server. Then he emailed them a warning, falsely claiming that the police were on to them. It was enough to spook the administrator, who confessed in a message to Purcell that he was a teenager and immediately took down the server. The operation took less than an hour. Purcell had found his calling. OnlyFans, for its part, has every reason to help creators keep their private images off other sites. In a response to emailed questions, a spokesperson said the company is “firmly in the fight to protect user content.” When it pursues stolen images, the “takedown success rates are extremely high.” The takedown services are free, and the company has “invested significantly” in the team that works on them, the spokesperson said. Yet the thefts persist, as do independent efforts to stop them. Right now, Ceartas is still a tiny operation. Purcell has been speaking with potential investors to expand his business while working out of the back of his aunt’s house, where he lives. Soon he hopes to focus on the company full time. As his business has increased, Purcell says he’s automated a lot of the searches and takedown notices, and he only rarely uses the social engineering tricks that got him started. Recently he even hired a lawyer to go with the email address, legal@weareceartas.com, he’s long used to send out his warnings. “Any company can have a legal department,” he says. “Doesn’t mean you’re a practicing attorney.”

Officials overseeing the U.S. transition away from the London interbank offered rate say they expect to endorse a long-awaited forward-looking term structure tied to the discredited benchmark’s primary replacement in the coming days. The Federal Reserve-backed Alternative Reference Rates Committee published recommendations on Wednesday for how market participants could best deploy term rates tied to the Secured Overnight Financing Rate in order to transition away from Libor. The group, which has held off endorsing a derivatives-based term structure due to insufficient market liquidity, said it plans to do so shortly after the July 26 swaps-market shift of interdealer trading conventions to SOFR, according to the statement.

The Tokyo Olympics is facing the first major test of its Covid protocols, after three people linked to the South African men’s soccer team tested positive for the coronavirus and put into jeopardy its match against Japan scheduled the day before the opening ceremony. Two players and one video analyst from the South African side have tested positive, and 18 others from the delegation who had been in close contact are in isolation. South Africa now has to put together a squad of at least 13 people who can clear health protocols for Thursday’s match.

While it’s long been clear that victims of sexual harassment often face retaliation that can damage their careers, the financial cost they shoulder has been difficult to quantify. To put a number on it, a study published Wednesday by Time’s Up and the Institute for Women’s Policy Research (IWPR), “Paying Today and Tomorrow,” sought to nail down what people who had been harassed ended up paying. Victims interviewed faced expenses anywhere from tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands of dollars.

The Bank of Russia spent years convincing citizens that it could bring inflation under control. A few months of surging prices has been enough to demolish that progress. “There was a short period when inflation fell out of the top three problems worrying the population,” said Valery Fedorov, head of state-run pollster VTsIOM. “People didn’t have time to believe in it.”

Sign up for the New Economy Daily newsletter, follow us @economics and subscribe to our podcast. The Bank of England will adopt recommendations from its governing body to link the pay of executive directors to performance on achieving targets to make a more diverse workforce.

Uber Technologies Inc. and Lyft Inc. drivers in major U.S. cities staged a strike on Wednesday demanding better pay and the right to unionize, a sign of the intensifying fight by gig workers for more labor protections. The demonstrations, organized by Rideshare Drivers United, call for drivers and passengers to turn off Uber and Lyft apps on Wednesday and boycott services to advocate for better pay, working conditions and the ability organize and collectively bargain. Rallies were scheduled in cities including Los Angeles, San Francisco, Boston, Cleveland, Las Vegas, Pittsburgh, Denver and Baltimore and Austin, Texas. The group didn’t immediately offer an estimate for how many drivers participated.

The Democratic National Committee raised $87.1 million over the first six months of the year, more than its Republican counterpart, according to its latest filing with the Federal Election Commission. Combined with the $3.8 million haul of its Democratic Grassroots Victory Fund, which supports the national and state party committees, the DNC raised more in the first half of 2021 than it did in all of 2017. The two raised $14.4 million in June, and ended the month with $67.6 million cash on hand, less than the GOP.

Follow @crypto Twitter for the latest news. Bitcoin steadied as traders mulled the largest cryptocurrency’s next move following a rebound stoked by comments from Elon Musk, Jack Dorsey and Cathie Wood.

Raytheon merged with United Technologies to create a $123 billion  aerospace and defense behemoth just as the pandemic was  grounding flights. Chief Executive Officer Gregory Hayes thinks travel will never be the same.  How does the economic growth trajectory look to you over the next six to 12 months?Great. We have two businesses: a commercial aerospace business which was just devastated last year, down 50%. And then we have a very, very big defense business. Both of those businesses are going to experience growth in the next 12 months, in the next two or three years. What do you anticipate for business travel?We’re starting to see it pick up. But certainly business travel is forever changed, because of Zoom. Our own view is you probably don’t see a full recovery in business travel until 2024, 2025. I hope we’re wrong. The deal between Raytheon and United Technologies was enormous. What did you learn?We had an aerospace and defense business at UTC, which was about $45 billion, merging with a $25 billion business focused primarily on defense. Interestingly, what we found was that the cultures weren’t all that different. What technological breakthrough will have the biggest impact on the defense industry?It could be hypersonic weapons. We’ve talked about stealth for the last 30 years, but speed trumps stealth when you’re talking about something that can go up to Mach 20, which is about 17,000 miles an hour. The ability to defend against hypersonics is the huge market. What do you think of the  billionaires going into space?I think what they have done with the commercialization of space transport is phenomenal. Space tourism will be a niche market for a long time at $250,000 a ride, for maybe 10 or 15 years, which is about my planning horizon. Then I’ll be too old to worry about it. Interviews are edited for clarity and length. Listen to Bloomberg Businessweek With Carol Massar and Tim Stenovec, weekdays from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. ET on Bloomberg Radio. Read next: Biden’s Antitrust Initiative Threatens a Big Railroad Takeover

The Marina Bay Sands casino in Singapore will shut for two weeks after authorities detected a Covid cluster, the latest to emerge after an outbreak at a fishery port that pushed the government to reimpose social restrictions. Eleven Covid cases have been linked to the casino owned by Las Vegas Sands Corp, prompting the decision to close until August 5 for deep cleaning and to break the spread of the virus, the Health Ministry said on Thursday. Testing will be done on all staff working at the casino, which is part of a larger complex including a hotel, dining and luxury shopping mall.

At least 800 people in Uganda received fake Covid-19 vaccines in June from “unscrupulous people” as employers rushed to inoculate workers amid a spike in infections. Some companies paid fees to have their employees vaccinated from their work premises, but the medical officials turned out to be fraudsters administering largely water, according to Warren Naamara, the director of State House Health Monitoring Unit. Two people were arrested over the scam, he said by phone.

Washington will apply “hard-hitting sanctions” on Cuban officials responsible for cracking down on demonstrations that rattled the communist island earlier this month, a U.S. State Department official said Wednesday. In a series of tweets, Julie Chung, the acting assistant secretary for the U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs, said President Joseph Biden’s administration is “actively pursuing measures that will support the Cuban people and hold the Cuban regime accountable.”

Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Pfizer Inc. said it reached an agreement to start production of its Covid-19 vaccine at a facility in Cape Town in an effort to deliver more than 100 million doses annually to African nations.

Leading up to and during the presidency of Donald Trump, Tom Barrack, founder of investment firm Colony Capital Inc., sold Trump to skeptical Wall Street titans, lauded him at the Republican National Convention, helped lead his transition team, and raised $107 million as chairman of the inaugural committee that organized the celebrations marking Trump’s ascendance. He was also, according to federal prosecutors, an unregistered agent for the United Arab Emirates. His  arrest on Tuesday is the latest blow in a long comedown for Barrack, who at 74 still radiates the tanned good health of a man who plays polo and makes wine. He lent decades of credibility built on Wall Street to Trump’s campaign and presidency, a deal that has now gone bad. Much of the trouble stems from his proclivity for comity even when there’s little room for it, as well as blindness to the failings of the royals and magnates with whom he fraternized. For most of his life, Barrack enjoyed playing the role of the CEO statesman, with geopolitics and cross-border investments intermingling freely. But that proposition became legally tenuous when he suddenly had direct access to America’s commander-in-chief. It was difficult to determine what role Barrack was embodying at any given time—private businessman, de facto diplomat, trusted friend of the president—amid a swirl of deal talks across the globe. When   Bloomberg Businessweek reported in 2018 on Barrack’s involvement in Middle East affairs, Colony representatives did their best to thread the needle: “Barrack as chairman is responsible for creating a macro vision and expanding the global brand,” an outside spokesman for the company said. “Politics around the world is an integral part of developing a vision.” The indictment filed in federal court in Brooklyn lays out allegations that Barrack was especially focused on developing the vision of high-level Emirati officials in Washington. Working with an assistant, Matthew Grimes, and Emirati businessman Rashid Al Malik, he talked up UAE views during TV appearances and pushed them to the Trump campaign and administration, the indictment says. Some of the dates mentioned in the indictment correspond with dates when Bloomberg TV aired interviews with Barrack. In May 2016, Al Malik communicated that an Emirati official had confirmed that Barrack would be “the only channel” to Trump. Eleven months later, Barrack told Al Malik in a text message that Trump was weighing giving him yet another role, this time as an ambassador or envoy, which “would give Abu Dhabi more power!”—a reference to the capital of the Emirates. Al Malik replied, “This will be great for us. And make you deliver more. Very effective operation.” The role never materialized, despite Barrack having served as head of the inaugural committee, a job he likened to that of a wedding planner. (It had its perks: Al Malik got an invitation to the black-tie dinner hosted by Barrack that featured a red-wine blend from his California vineyard and performances by a Las Vegas dance troupe.) The indictment charged Barrack with failing to register as an agent, as well as obstruction of justice and lying to federal officials during a 2019 interview. He was taken into federal custody in California pending a bail hearing on Monday. Matthew Herrington, Barrack’s lawyer, said that his client is innocent and that he voluntarily made himself available to investigators. The Foreign Agents Registration Act was designed to bolster transparency and help Americans better understand when foreign actors are pushing information or policy. The law has proved troublesome for other Trump associates, including former Trump campaign chairman  Paul Manafort and former Trump fundraiser  Elliott Broidy. Both were  pardoned by the former president. It’s Broidy, the other Los Angeles-based investor turned Trump donor and UAE backer, who has always drawn the quickest contrasts from Barrack’s friends. Broidy pleaded guilty to conspiring to violate FARA. Prosecutors said he was paid millions of dollars for work that included lobbying the government to drop the investigation into the 1Malaysia Development Bhd Fund. The Barrack indictment makes no mention of compensation for his advocacy of the Emiratis. He has always thrived in a more genteel world of kind deeds and thoughtful favors. Colony Capital continued to receive investments from Emirati investors during the Trump presidency, and in 2019 the company closed a fund that included its first investment from the  Public Investment Fund, the sovereign wealth fund of Saudi Arabia, a close Emirati ally. As Trump prepared to take office in 2017, Colony completed a disastrous merger that would send shares plummeting. And Barrack’s relationship with the UAE was set to put the company in a deeper bind. In June 2017 the UAE and Saudi Arabia blockaded Qatar, one of Colony’s biggest investors. Qatar’s neighbors accused it of supporting terrorism, a claim it denied but that Trump backed. Barrack, who has known Trump since the 1980s when he arranged to sell him the Plaza Hotel, makes a point of talking about how he’s friends with everyone. He’s conflict-averse and is especially accommodating to royal families that steer large sovereign wealth funds. Barrack had helped the Qataris gain control of Claridge’s hotel in London, coordinated the construction of a sheikh-size Bel Air mansion, and bolstered their stateside political ties. But now the Emiratis and Saudis were using their influence in the Trump White House to isolate Barrack’s old friends in Qatar. Suddenly Barrack was less ecstatic about pushing the Emirati position. According to the indictment, he proposed to Al Malik that representatives from the UAE, Qatar, and other governments meet at Camp David, the presidential retreat in Maryland where Egypt and Israel hammered out a Nobel Prize-winning peace agreement. Al Malik “did not believe such a meeting was in the interests” of the UAE, the indictment says. When that went nowhere, Barrack found himself in the awkward position of having to play both sides. He told the Washington Post that he was sometimes “shocked” by the president’s rhetoric and that he had advised Trump not to get involved in the blockade. But that required its own damage control. According to prosecutors, Barrack then told Al Malik that the newspaper had failed to include positive statements he’d made about a person identified in the indictment as “Emirati Official 1,” an apparent reference to Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi. Things did not look up from there. In 2019, as the world condemned Saudi Arabia for the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi, Barrack told Milken Institute conference attendees it would be a mistake to judge the Saudis for that. (He later described the killing as “atrocious.”) Then Jared Kushner unveiled, and received the plaudits for, a détente between the UAE, Israel, and Saudi Arabia that Barrack had pitched years earlier. By early 2020, shares of Colony had fallen 80% from their peak, triggering an activist letter that described Barrack as a “remote, part-time CEO” and called for his ouster. Despite holding about 2% of the company’s shares, the activist, a little-known company called  Blackwells Capital LLC, won four board seats. Barrack  stepped down, first as chief executive officer in 2020 and then as executive chairman earlier this year. The company has been renamed  DigitalBridge Group Inc., more befitting of its new focus on infrastructure such as cell towers and data centers, a line of work that one Barrack friend says he found boring. Amid the strategy shift, shares have more than doubled since a replacement CEO was announced. In an  interview on July 13 with Bloomberg TV’s Erik Schatzker, Barrack, dressed in dark jeans and a gray, long-sleeve top by Zegna, didn’t give any indication that he knew an arrest was coming. In fact he was starting a new family office that would work with investors in the UAE, Saudi Arabia, and Qatar. It would be called Falcon Peak, an apparent reference to the national bird of the Emirates. “The region,” he said, “is so complicated.” Read next: Trump’s Mar-A-Lago and the Florida Coast Become a GOP Power Base

Elon Musk, the billionaire head of Tesla Inc., said Bitcoin mining is “shifting towards renewable energy” and his company will likely resume accepting the cryptocurrency as payment for its electric cars. Tesla suspended purchases using Bitcoin in May on concerns about fossil fuel use in mining, triggering a slide in the digital currency.

Johnson & Johnson raised its annual adjusted earnings and revenue forecast as quarterly sales rebounded strongly from a year ago, when the pandemic stifled non-Covid procedures. The health-care giant boosted its profit forecast to $9.60 to $9.70 a share, up from as much as $9.57, helped by the performance of its drug and medical-device units and sales of Covid-19 shots. The company also raised its revenue outlook to as much as $94.6 billion from an earlier range that topped out at $91.6 billion.

Governments and companies will need to invest at least $92 trillion by 2050 in order to cut emissions fast enough to prevent the worst effects of climate change.  That’s the latest forecast from analysts at BloombergNEF, who see that scale of spending as necessary to drive a rapid electrification of the global economy and slash reliance on fossil fuels.

Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Cape Town is seeking to secure more than 450 megawatts of power from renewable sources to cut reliance on state power utility Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd. and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.

The U.S. is “at another pivotal moment in this pandemic,” with Covid-19 cases once again climbing and beds at some hospitals filling up, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Rochelle Walensky said. The recent rise in cases shows no signs of abating in the U.S. states that have fueled the uptick as the delta variant proliferates. In response to surging caseloads and hospitalizations, Texas is dispatching people to Walmarts around the state to encourage younger people to get vaccinations inside. Cases are on the upswing around Cape Cod and the islands as swarms of visitors, discouraged from traveling abroad, bring the region’s summer tourism to historic levels.

Sign up to receive the Bloomberg Green newsletter in your inbox every weekday. For all the lives lost and economic damage done by the coronavirus pandemic, it’s also managed to hurt efforts to combat climate change.

China Evergrande Group bonds are suffering steep haircuts in a key onshore funding market, showing just how risky the bonds are perceived to be by mainland dealers. Holders of Evergrande’s 2023 yuan bond are being forced to accept a 53% discount to pledge the note as collateral in the repo market, according to China Securities Depository and Clearing Corp. data, versus 28% in April. A markdown of around 57% of the bond’s face value was seen in the wake of the developer’s previous liquidity crisis in October, the data showed.

Sign up for the New Economy Daily newsletter, follow us @economics and subscribe to our podcast. The European Central Bank starts a potentially heated two-day meeting on Wednesday, with officials needing to decide how their newly unveiled monetary strategy affects near-term policy.

London (AP) -- Former Sex Pistols singer John Lydon said Wednesday that he’s “heart and soul” against letting the band’s songs be used in an upcoming television drama about the pioneering punk outfit, dismissing the TV series as “nonsense.” Lydon, formerly known as Johnny Rotten, is being sued by guitarist Steve Jones and drummer Paul Cook, who want the songs to feature in “Pistol,” a Disney-backed series based on a memoir by Jones.

Rogers Communications Inc. fell as much as 3.2% even after the telecommunications firm reported 14% growth in second-quarter revenue that met analysts’ projections. One analyst attributed its steepest decline since March 17 to potentially higher capital expenditures in the coming months.

UVeye, a company that uses artificial intelligence to do fast vehicle inspections, has raised $60 million from investors including used car retailer CarMax Inc. and the insurer W.R. Berkley Corp. “The completion of Series C funding represents a significant step forward for UVeye and our plans to expand in Europe and the U.S.,” Amir Hever, UVeye’s chief executive officer and co-founder, said in a statement Wednesday.

Volvo Cars has agreed to take control of its China ventures from parent Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd., potentially boosting its valuation ahead of a planned share sale. The deal will make Volvo the first major foreign automaker to gain full control over its Chinese operations, the Swedish company’s Chief Executive Officer Hakan Samuelsson said in a statement Wednesday. The companies declined to comment on terms of the deal.

Brookfield Asset Management Inc. is exploring a takeover of listed German real estate firm Alstria Office REIT-AG, according to people familiar with the matter, as it bets on workers returning to city centers. The Canadian investment firm is working with advisers to evaluate a potential bid, said the people, who asked not to be identified because discussions are private. Alstria Office is valued at about 3.3 billion euros ($3.9 billion) and Brookfield already holds 8.35% of the company.

Life expectancy in the United States dropped the most in more than seven decades last year as Covid-19 sent hundreds of thousands of Americans to early deaths. The pandemic's disproportionate toll on communities of color also widened existing gaps in life expectancy between White and Black Americans, according to estimates released by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Tarrant, Ala. (AP) -- A white city leader captured on video using a racial slur toward Black people during a council meeting said he won't apologize, and might run for mayor. Others are calling for his resignation. Tarrant City Council member Tommy Bryant told news outlets his use of the word Monday night reflected something the city's Black mayor, Wayman Newton, had said during an earlier private meeting.

Forget about a summit between Joe Biden and Xi Jinping: The U.S. and China had trouble even agreeing on the protocol for a meeting between senior diplomats. A spat over who on the Chinese side was an equivalent rank to U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman for her visit to Asia in July became the latest sign of how far relations have plummeted. The dispute betrays deeper concerns and mistrust as well as the murkiness of who’s really important in Beijing. Sherman’s Asia tour has included on-again-off-again plans for China before the State Department confirmed meetings in the port city of Tianjin on July 25 and 26. The U.S. diplomat will meet with officials including State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi. That announcement came after the Financial Times reported that her travel plans were halted because she had been offered a meeting with Vice Foreign Minister Xie Feng, whom the U.S. didn’t consider her counterpart. The wrangle came two months after China’s state-backed Global Times criticized U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin for snubbing an offer to speak with the defense minister. The newspaper cited a source that accused the U.S. of disregarding diplomatic protocol and committing an “unprofessional and unfriendly act” by instead seeking talks with the vice chairman of China’s Central Military Commission.

National excess deaths, seen as a more precise way of measuring total fatalities from the coronavirus, rose to 203,000 during the coronavirus pandemic, the South African Medical Research Council said. The number of excess deaths, which is measured against a historical average, recorded between May 3, 2020 and July 17 this year, the SAMRC said in a report Wednesday. Thats about triple the official death toll of about 68,000 from the disease.

The aftershocks of the U.K.’s exit from the European Union are still being felt in Gibraltar, the rocky outcrop at Spain’s southern tip that’s been British for three centuries. Its 2.35 billion-pound ($3.2 billion) services-based economy is dependent on the untrammeled flow of frontier workers and other visitors coming in from Spain -- the type of free movement that Brexit was meant to limit. Rules guiding border protocols are still in flux, even after the EU and the U.K. sealed their divorce. The 6.8-square-kilometer enclave is a self-governing British overseas territory, like Bermuda or the Falklands Islands. As such, most of its 34,000 residents are British citizens, who voted almost unanimously in a 2002 referendum to remain under sole British sovereignty. At the same time, Gibraltar is physically part of Europe’s mainland, with deep ties to neighboring Spain -- which questions the legal basis of the U.K.’s claims to the territory ceded to Britain under the 1713 Treaty of Utrecht. In the 2016 Brexit referendum narrowly won by anti-EU forces, 96% of Gibraltarians voted in favor of remaining in the EU.

The Treasury market failed a key test for its lower yield levels Wednesday as an auction of 20-year bonds fared poorly, despite cheapening into the bidding deadline. The rally that drove long-term Treasury yields to five-month lows this week remained stalled after the auction, with the benchmark 10-year note’s yield more than six basis points higher on the day. At about 1.29%, the yield was more than 25 basis points higher than its low on Tuesday, when the prospect of prolonged economic stagnation caused by the spread of virus variants boosted appeal for haven assets.

Maria Taylor, the ESPN anchor drawn into a controversy over diversity by a colleague, is leaving the network after talks to renew her contract failed. The Walt Disney Co.-owned channel said in a joint statement with Taylor Wednesday that her final broadcast was Tuesday’s NBA championship.

Angela Merkel said that the next German chancellor will have to pick up the pace of technological progress to ensure Europe’s biggest economy can remain competitive in the digital age. Speaking at an extended press conference Thursday before what will be her last summer break as German leader, Merkel said that the next government will have to do more to digitize the public sector, help businesses take advantage of cutting edge technology and accelerate the effort to eliminate carbon emissions. Microphone malfunctions in the press room underlined the fact that for all its engineering prowess, Germany still struggles with the basics at times. “We could be better,” Merkel said. “There’s a lot to do.” While Merkel has seen solid economic growth add more than 5 million jobs during her 16 years in office, she’s stepping down at a time of when questions are mounting about the country’s future. The fabled German car industry is wrestling with the end of combustion engines and competition from the likes of Tesla, the German tech industry lags behinds its European rivals and manufacturers are fretting about the cost of the energy transition. Read More: Five Big Problems Merkel Is Leaving Next German Leader to Tackle The chancellor, who met with President Joe Biden in Washington last week, said that she had taken note of U.S. plans to spend some $250 billion on technology research, including chip development. ”We’re a strong country and have shown that during the coronavirus crisis,” she said. “But we have work to do in several areas to maintain the standard that we have and the world is developing with an incredible dynamic.” Merkel’s CDU remains on track to lead the next government, but the devastating floods that have battered the country over the past week have shifted the dynamic in the election campaign. Conservative front-runner Armin Laschet damaged his efforts when he was caught laughing on camera in the midst of the catastrophe. Laschet’s conservative bloc topped the latest poll from Forsa on 28%, nine points ahead of the Greens, in the first survey to gauge voters’ reaction to the flooding. A week earlier, Laschet had been leading by 11 points. Germany's conservatives have seen their lead in the polls narrow Source: Forsa poll  The country’s first woman leader and the first from formerly communist East Germany has won four straight German elections as head of the center-right Christian Democrats. If the coalition negotiations following September’s vote stretch on past Christmas, she’ll surpass Helmut Kohl to become Germany’s longest-serving postwar chancellor. Her last victory, in 2017, was strained by a lackluster result six months of tumultuous talks before she could form a government with the Social Democrats. In 2018, after political fight over refugees that nearly brought down her administration, she announced she wouldn’t run again as CDU party chairwoman or chancellor. How Germany’s Greens Moved From Fringe to Contenders Merkel has done much to tout her ambitious climate agenda, and in her first term she was dubbed “the green chancellor” (she was environment minister in the 1990s). But her record is more mixed. In 2011, she was forced to reverse a nearly-complete plan to extend nuclear energy by a decade in the fallout of the Fukushima disaster in Japan. Her 2019 plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by the end of this decade ran into opposition from climate activists and the opposition, who said it wasn’t ambitious enough. “A number of things are in effect, but much has to go faster,” she said Thursday. Similarly, she did little to encourage German automakers to embrace the shift to electric motors until the diesel scandal of 2015 forced their hand.  One of the biggest questions looming over the post-Merkel era is how involved the new government will be in driving the country’s economy. Merkel pursued a balanced-budget regime, known as the Black Zero -- often praised by supporters before the pandemic as it drove debt levels far below those of Germany’s peers. Yet she also often faced criticism for not making better use of fiscal space when the economy could afford it. With the pandemic, budget restraint was largely tossed aside as Merkel’s government spent hundreds of billions of euros to keep jobs and companies afloat amid lockdowns. The question now is whether to reinstate it. Compared to its European neighbors, Germany’s economy fared relatively well throughout the crisis, largely due to massive government support. The question is how businesses will fare once aid is withdrawn. — With assistance by Carolynn Look





















Bly, Ore. (AP) -- Lower winds and better weather helped crews using bulldozers and helicopters battling the nation’s largest wildfire in southern Oregon, but gusty winds pushed a Northern California wildfire into Nevada on Thursday, prompting evacuations as blazes burn across the West. Oregon’s Bootleg Fire grew to 624 square miles (1,616 square kilometers) — over half the size of Rhode Island. However, authorities said higher humidity Wednesday and overnight and better conditions allowed crews to improve fire lines. The fire also was approaching an area burned by a previous fire on its active southeastern flank, raising hopes that a lack of fuel could reduce its spread, and the forecast was for favorable firefighting weather again Thursday.

Earlier this month, Pittsburgh Mayor Bill Peduto unveiled Move PGH, a program that aims to unite transportation services for non-drivers into a single platform. By opening Transit app, program participants will soon be able to plan and buy trips on public transit and bikeshare, as well as rides on shared electric scooters from Spin, by-the-hour vehicle rentals from Zipcar, e-mopeds from Scoobi, and carpooling via Waze. In exchange for participating in Move PGH, each of those companies has received a city permit unavailable to its competitors. The city is also working with Spin to concentrate mobility services around 50 physical hubs scattered throughout the city. “We’re making it super intuitive to open up a single app, with everything in one place,” says Karina Ricks, director of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure. She hopes Move PGH helps residents avoid worrying if they miss the bus or can’t find an e-scooter: “If my Plan A falls through, there’s a Plan B and Plan C to get me where I need to go.” Ultimately, she envisions Move PGH allowing more people to leave their car at home, or even get rid of it entirely. A second program within Move PGH will provide “Universal Basic Mobility” to a few dozen low-income Pittsburghers — a free subscription to a package of mobility services. Ricks envisions eventually offering a paid version of that program to the general population. In the meantime, experts from Carnegie Mellon University and the Urban Institute have been tapped to evaluate Move PGH’s progress. There is a name for Move PGH’s underlying idea of bundling together urban mobility services: “Mobility as a Service,” or MaaS. Since MaaS’s flashy emergence in the mid-2010s, its supporters have painted an enticing vision of car-light cities where residents hop effortlessly between bus, bike, scooter and train. With concerns about automobiles’ contributions to climate change rising — and with many cities building new bike lanes and busways during the pandemic — MaaS could be poised to break out. If that happens, it will be a turnaround story. Cities from Berlin to Los Angeles to Tokyo have already experimented with MaaS, without clear evidence yet that many people changed their travel behavior as a result. As Pittsburgh becomes the latest city to give MaaS a shot, it’s a good time to apply lessons gleaned from its birthplace: Finland. The term “MaaS” was coined in a Finnish university in 2014, and the Finnish government even passed a national law intended to boost adoption. But today, Finland’s MaaS journey seems to be running aground. Only a tiny share of the country’s urban trips there are booked on MaaS platforms, and the companies providing them appear to be struggling. Meanwhile, the leading Finnish MaaS provider is at loggerheads with the nation’s biggest transit authority. If MaaS can’t succeed in its Nordic backyard, does it have a chance in a place like the Steel City? On the surface, Finland’s capital of Helsinki seems like exactly the kind of place where MaaS should thrive. The city easily clears the first hurdle of a successful MaaS deployment: It offers so much transit service and cycling infrastructure that going car-free is a realistic option. Only one in three city residents even owns a personal vehicle. “As soon as I came here, I sold my car and bought a transit pass and a bike,” says Aalto University engineering professor Milos Mladenovic, who began researching MaaS when he moved to Finland from the U.S. Urban Finns are deeply multimodal; prior to the pandemic more than half of Helsinki regional residents used transit at least once a week, and biking remains popular even during the long, dark winters (the city has a program to keep cycle lanes clear of snow and ice). Finland also has a history of embracing technology and digitalization; in the 1990s the country rode the tech boom, with Nokia as its standard bearer. Finnish graduate student Sonja Heikkila’s 2014 master’s thesis about MaaS is widely cited as the origin of the term (similar ideas, like Transportation as a Service, were already bouncing around), and the concept quickly found a receptive audience among climate-conscious Finns. In 2017 the national government passed the landmark Act on Transport Services, which required all transportation providers — both private companies and public transit authorities — to share data with one another and enable other parties to sell their trips. By positioning itself on MaaS’s leading edge, Finnish leaders hoped to both encourage clean, multimodal transportation while nurturing a potentially exportable industry. One Finn sensing opportunity was Sampo Hietanen, who was Heikkila’s thesis advisor. In 2015 he founded MaaS Global, a Helsinki-based startup that has raised more than 60 million euros ($70.8 million) to develop and market Whim, a MaaS platform offering the option of buying a la carte tickets or packaged mobility subscriptions. For instance, one current Whim product provides Helsinki residents with unlimited transit and short taxi trips, as well as a fixed amount of bikeshare trips and discounted carshare — all for a monthly cost of 62.70 euros. But tensions quickly flared between MaaS Global and HSL, the transit authority of the Helsinki region. HSL has its own mobile ticketing app, and MaaS advocates worried the transit authority was undermining the nascent MaaS market in order to keep riders on its own app. First MaaS Global accused HSL of refusing to share easy access to its popular monthly transit passes. Then the company appealed to the Finnish Competition and Consumer Authority in the hopes of collecting “service fees” over and above the face value of a transit ticket. (That appeal is ongoing.) Meanwhile, the Covid pandemic has battered the national mobility industry. Finnish MaaS company Kyyti recently announced that it would cease operations, while MaaS Global has undergone two rounds of layoffs, Hietanen says. A recent investigation in Finnish newspaper Helsingin Sanomat (English translation here) described a company hemorrhaging money, pursuing expansions in Japan, Britain and Belgium despite failing to gain traction in its home market. (Hietanen says that the article exaggerated the company’s financial difficulties.) According to HSL, Finland’s MaaS platforms have never accounted for more than 2% of regional transit ticket sales; in the first six months of 2021, that figure has been just over 1%. Maas sales (which are dominated by Whim) fell 72% during the last two years, exceeding the 51% drop across all HSL tickets. “Subscriptions are virtually impossible during lockdowns,” says Hietanen. “No one commits to anything.” “We’re only seven years in. Look at how messy regulations were seven years after cars were first on the road.” Minna Soininen, the director of the Finnish Transport Association, brushes aside any suggestion that the friction with HSL could have contributed to MaaS’s struggles in her country. “We’ve known for five-plus years, if something goes wrong with MaaS, transit will be blamed,” she says. “How Whim is doing is mostly about whether people appreciate their product.” Indeed, reaching widespread usage seems like a high bar for any MaaS platform to clear. Having all your transportation options in one app is certainly convenient, but it might not be enough to change your travel decisions. “What’s the extra mile I would get from a MaaS app?” asks Mladenovic, the Aalto University professor. “Maybe I’d use it if the MaaS app gave me cheaper prices than I could get elsewhere, but that’s just burning money.” Case in point: In London, the MaaS startup Citymapper used some of its funds to offer transit passes cheaper than Transport for London was selling them. Consumer-facing MaaS startups outside of Finland have also been having a rocky time. Zipster, a MaaS platform in Singapore, recently shut down, and Citymapper has turned to crowdsourcing in order to raise fresh funds. Covid lockdowns haven’t helped, but MaaS’s struggles predate the pandemic. As I’ve argued before in Bloomberg CityLab, it’s tough to build a viable business aggregating tiny commissions from individual trips costing only a few euros or dollars each. Other MaaS models are possible, like selling services to employers rather than individuals or licensing a MaaS platform to transit agencies. But it isn’t clear that those models have been any more effective at inducing mode shift away from driving. Philippe Crist, an advisor for innovation at the OECD’s International Transport Forum, believes MaaS’s story is still just beginning. “We’re only seven years in,” he says. “Look at how messy regulations were seven years after cars were first on the road.” The principal author of a recent report on MaaS trends worldwide, Crist recommends that countries allow transit authorities to sell MaaS companies discounted bundles of low-demand tickets (at off-peak times, for instance). That would let MaaS providers to sell those tickets in creative ways, potentially making a profit in the process. Crist also argues that MaaS cannot succeed in Finland — or anywhere — without a transparent governance structure that prevents transit authorities and private companies from falling into a spiral of dysfunction. Mladenovic agrees, calling for “interpretative flexibility” in order to settle disputes. “We need some kind of semipublic forum for these urban debates,” he says, “as opposed to shooting at each other through the media.” For Pittsburgh, the good news is that Move PGH seems to have strong oversight built into its model. The city itself will manage the program, and Ricks says her agency will be ready to resolve conflicts that might emerge (the city has leverage, since it is issuing exclusive permits to Move PGH’s private sector participants). Pittsburgh’s local transit authority is only now adopting mobile ticketing, so tensions like those in Helsinki between HSL and MaaS Global seem unlikely. Move PGH also offers ticketing across a broader range of mobility services than any prior U.S. MaaS deployment: Only ride-hailing service is currently lacking. Notably, Pittsburgh’s program will ultimately include a network of 50 physical mobility hubs throughout the city. The hubs will feature micromobility charging stations from Swiftmile and multimodal wayfinding screens from TransitScreen. (Disclosure: I’m an adviser to TransitScreen.) Details are yet to come, but such hubs could both facilitate easy transfers across modes and act as billboards for Move PGH’s suite of services. But a big question remains: Will Move PGH be enough to convince many Pittsburghers not to drive? The city set a target for halving its transportation-related emissions and vehicle miles traveled by 2030 in its 2018 climate action plan; to meet that goal, transit and bike usage will need to grow dramatically. Currently, according to the 2019 American Community Survey, 17% of local commutes take place on transit and 2% by bicycle. Those numbers exceed those of many other similarly sized American cities, but pale in comparison to a European hub of multimobility like Helsinki. That’s unsurprising when you compare service availability: Pittsburgh’s three light-rail lines, for example, come every 15 to 30 minutes in the middle of the day; Helsinki’s Metro system provides trains every 2 to 4 minutes. Move PGH is still getting up and running, but Spin, which corralled many of its private sector partners, is ready to export the idea. “We’re already thinking about how to bring this model to other cities,” says Ben Bear, Spin’s CEO. I asked Mladenovic what advice he would give any U.S. urban leader thinking about following Pittsburgh’s example and embracing MaaS as a way to reduce driving. He smiled, giving his answer in the form of a question: “What is the frequency of your transit service?”

Sign up to receive the Green Daily newsletter in your inbox. The International Energy Agency published a hopeful finding last month on global subsidies for fossil fuel consumption, showing a fall of more than 40% in 2020 — following a drop of more than 30% in 2019.

English football requires an independent regulator to tackle the threat of an “existential crisis in the years to come” due to financial pressures in the sport, a review commissioned by the U.K. government found. “The dangers facing many clubs across the country are very real, with their futures precarious and dependent in most cases on the willingness and continuing ability of owners to fund significant losses,” Conservative member of Parliament Tracey Crouch said in a letter to the government on Thursday.

The U.K. government is rolling out daily Covid testing to allow workers in supermarket depots and food manufacturers to avoid self-isolation, amid concerns that mass staff shortages are threatening crucial supplies. As many as 10,000 workers at about 500 key sites will no longer need to self-isolate for 10 days if they come into contact with a positive case, Environment Secretary George Eustice told broadcasters on Friday.

Nashville, Tenn. (AP) -- A decadeslong effort to remove a bust of a Confederate general and early Ku Klux Klan leader from the Tennessee Capitol cleared its final hurdle Thursday, with state leaders approving the final vote needed to allow the statue to be relocated to a museum. The seven-member State Building Commission voted 5-2 to remove the Nathan Bedford Forrest bust as well as the busts of two other Tennessee military leaders.

(AP) -- A look at what's happening the world of music as artists announce their touring plans and concert venues plan their reopenings after being shuttered by the pandemic. BILLIE'S POST-ALBUM CONCERT

(AP) -- Small businesses in the U.S. that depend on tourism and vacationers say business is bouncing back, as Americans rebook postponed trips and spend freely on food, entertainment and souvenirs. U.S. states and cities have loosened many of their restrictions on crowd size and mask-wearing, a positive sign for businesses that struggled for more than a year when theme parks and other tourist attractions were shuttered.

A competitor to Elon Musk’s Neuralink said it raised $20 million, enough to get it on track to introduce a new generation of powerful and tiny electrodes to the human brain. Paradromics Inc., founded in 2015 about a year ahead of Neuralink, is building brain-computer interfaces that could help people with disorders ranging from paralysis to speech impediments.

Fort Worth, Texas (AP) -- American Airlines eked out a second-quarter profit of $19 million, its first since the pandemic started, thanks to nearly $1.5 billion in federal relief. The report on Thursday underscored the progress airlines are making in rebuilding after the coronavirus crushed air travel — and how much farther they still have to go to fully recover.

Chipmakers from Taiwan to the U.S. are cranking up production to address shortages that have hammered automakers and other customers as they try to emerge from the coronavirus pandemic. Now that unprecedented surge investment is fueling fears the industry will overshoot, adding so much capacity in the years ahead as demand subsides that profits will take a hit.

Nashville, Tenn. (AP) -- Americana singer-songwriter Brandi Carlile's new blonde locks are an homage to David Bowie, a hint at what her new music will sound like. The six-time Grammy-winner sports a Bowie-inspired look in the first music video from her upcoming sixth album, “In These Silent Days,” which is coming out on Oct. 1.

(AP) -- In a break from tradition, the Film Independent Spirit Awards are moving away from Oscars weekend. The 37th annual awards ceremony will now take place on Sunday, March 6, three weeks before the Academy Awards on March 27, the nonprofit organization Film Independent said Thursday. The Spirit Awards have long been held on the Saturday before the Oscars as a casual, beachside, afternoon fete. While the show won’t be able to benefit from attendees already in town for the Oscars, it does mean the awards could now influence Oscars voting.

Now that Jeff Bezos and Richard Branson have made their trips to space, other billionaires are bound to follow. China’s ultra-rich are also looking for adventure and business opportunities in the skies, but they’ll be keeping their feet firmly on the ground. The country’s tycoons are steering clear of space tourism and the type of exploration that Elon Musk is pursuing even further afield, instead focusing on businesses like satellite manufacturing and rocket launching that support China’s ambitions in space.

The Tokyo Olympics faced the latest in a series of PR disasters when they were forced to fire the director of the opening ceremony a day before it takes place, after a decades-old video emerged of him joking about the Holocaust. The scandal is the latest blow in the run-up to the games, which are taking place under unprecedented circumstances, mostly without spectators and against the wishes of much of the Japanese public as virus cases rise in the capital.

Congress must act quickly to bolster semiconductor manufacturing in the U.S., according to a letter from several trade groups and unions delivered to House and Senate leaders on Thursday. “Strengthening the U.S. position in semiconductor research, design, and manufacturing is a national priority,” reads the letter, organized by the Semiconductor Industry Association.

Brazil’s Jair Bolsonaro tapped a centrist lawmaker outside his inner circle to oversee his cabinet, the president’s latest maneuver to maintain congressional support as probes into the government’s handling of the pandemic erode his popularity. Senator Ciro Nogueira, a leader of the powerful bloc of ideologically fluid lawmakers know as the “centrao,” will become Bolsonaro’s chief of staff with the mission to maintain good relations with the legislature, the far-right president announced on Thursday.

Multiple websites including DraftKings, Airbnb, FedEx, Delta, Barclays and others appear to be experiencing issues.

A bipartisan group of senators is closing in on a $579 billion infrastructure deal after agreeing to pay for it in part by delaying a costly Trump-era Medicare regulation, but they don’t expect to announce details until at least Monday. Any deal could still face resistance from Democrats on both sides of the Capitol, making the prospects uncertain as a bipartisan group of 22 senators works out the final sticking points.

Two of the largest U.S. steelmakers posted record quarterly profit that easily beat analysts’ estimates during the greatest steel rally in a generation. Yet investors clearly focused more on the outlook from Nucor Corp. and Cleveland-Cliffs Inc. Cliffs projected higher full-year earnings that didn’t appear to be enough to satisfy investors already enjoying strong returns. Nucor gained after its chief executive officer said on an analysts’ call that third-quarter shipments will be slightly better than the prior quarter.

AT&T Inc. exceeded Wall Street profit estimates and blew past wireless subscriber targets, showing its newly concentrated focus on fiber and 5G network expansion is making progress. Second-quarter earnings rose to 89 cents a share, with revenue reaching $44 billion, AT&T said Thursday. That topped estimates of 80 cents and $42.8 billion. The most recent figure excludes a 52-cent charge for the Latin American video unit Vrio, which is being sold.

Southwest Airlines Co. said it was “hopeful” of returning to profitability in the third and fourth quarters, amid concerns over the financial impact of a coronavirus variant and a recent rash of flight delays. The potential for an adjusted profit excludes any benefit from billions of dollars in airline aid provided by the U.S. government, Southwest said Thursday as it reported second-quarter results. The carrier recorded a profit in June, not counting federal funds, its first since the pandemic began. Delta Air Lines Inc. and United Airlines Holdings Inc. have both predicted a return to profit.

New York (AP) -- Michael Cumella, dressed in 1920s garb, laid his old Victrola record player down among the tombstones and turned to the small tour group assembled under the towering trees at Woodlawn Cemetery. “She was the diva of her day. The Beyoncé of her day,” he said, brushing leaves off the modest stone commemorating vaudeville star Nora Bayes.

Welcome to Thursday, Americas. Here’s the latest news and analysis from Bloomberg Economics to help you start the day:

Applications for U.S. state unemployment insurance rose unexpectedly last week by the most since late March, underscoring week-to-week volatility in an otherwise improving labor market. Initial jobless claims in regular state programs totaled 419,000 in the week ended July 17, up 51,000 from the prior week, Labor Department data showed Thursday. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists called for 350,000 new applications.

A Hungarian referendum the government has proposed to push back against European Union pressure over an anti-LGBTQ law will probably take place in January or February, Cabinet Minister Gergely Gulyas said. That means the vote, which has intensified a standoff with the EU, will probably be held before next year’s parliamentary elections, Gulyas told a briefing in Budapest on Thursday. The general election is usually held every four years in early April.

Angela Merkel said that the next German chancellor will have to pick up the pace of technological progress to ensure Europe’s biggest economy can remain competitive in the digital age. Speaking at an extended press conference Thursday before what will be her last summer break as German leader, Merkel said that the next government will have to do more to digitize the public sector, help businesses take advantage of cutting edge technology and accelerate the effort to eliminate carbon emissions.

Blizzard Entertainment's disastrous remake of the classic video game Warcraft III last year was the result of mismanagement and financial pressures, according to newly revealed documents and people with knowledge of the failed launch. The release also reflected Blizzard’s significant cultural changes in recent years, as corporate owner  Activision Blizzard Inc. has pushed the developer to cut costs and prioritize its biggest titles. Warcraft III: Reforged was a long-awaited reimagining of one of Blizzard’s most popular games. Blizzard President J. Allen Brack called the original title “monumentally important” when Reforged was announced in 2018. The company promised “over four hours of updated in-game cutscenes and re-recorded voice-overs.” But the project was never a priority for the company, in part because a remaster of an old strategy game had little chance of becoming the type of billion-dollar product that Activision wanted, according to the people, who asked not to be named because they weren’t authorized to speak on company matters. With Blizzard pressured to focus on its biggest franchises, Warcraft III: Reforged couldn’t get the ambitious budget that its leaders wanted.

Transnet SOC Ltd., South Africa’s state-owned ports and freight-rail company, is manually processing container shipments in the continent’s biggest port after an alleged cyber attack crippled its computer systems. The company had to switch from the software system developed by Navis, which was acquired by Accel-KKR this month, to asking shippers to supply physical copies of the so-called Container Terminal Order in Durban, according to a notice Transnet sent to customers.

Unilever Plc warned that costs for raw materials that go into shampoo, detergents and ice cream are increasing at the fastest pace in more than a decade, forcing the company to scale back profitability goals for this year. The maker of Cif cleaners and Dove soap lowered its guidance for profitability Thursday, forecasting 2021 margins near last year’s level as improvement becomes more difficult. The shares fell as much as 5.8%, the steepest drop since February.

Deutsche Bank AG has hired Barclays Plc’s Abdeslam Alaoui as head of capital markets for central and eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa, people familiar with the matter said. Alaoui, who declined to comment when asked about his departure, was promoted to managing director in 2018. His most recent role at Barclays was head of CEEMEA debt capital markets, according to his LinkedIn profile.

It’s something I’ve suspected for several years and suggested sotto voce to friends, but now can say out loud: New York City has better Indian food than London. I say this after a few dinners at Dhamaka. The latest collaboration between restaurateur Roni Mazumdar and chef Chintan Pandya is the ras-malai, the end-of-meal sweet, that rounds off the perfect maha-bhoj, or grand feast, of the city’s Indian dining options. I can drill down to a single dish that confirms New York’s primacy: the baked rabbit known as Rajasthani khargosh.

Ternate, Indonesia (AP) -- An Indonesian man with the coronavirus has boarded a domestic flight disguised as his wife, wearing a niqab covering his face and carrying fake IDs and a negative PCR test result. But the cover didn't last long.

Freeport-McMoRan Inc., the top publicly traded copper miner, produced less than expected last quarter, offering a boost to prices of the metal that had retreated from record highs. The Phoenix-based company reported second-quarter output of 913 million pounds, trailing the 961 million-pound average estimate among analysts. While Freeport reiterated its annual sales forecast and output is well above year-ago levels, copper sales came in below Freeport’s own projection due to the timing of shipments.

Hippo Enterprises Inc., the startup planning to merge with a blank-check company that counts LinkedIn co-founder Reid Hoffman as a director, is expanding beyond home insurance into commercial coverage. The company created a homeowners-association policy and is working on insurance for condominium associations, single-family rentals and other potential customers, Hippo said Thursday in a statement. The homeowners-association policy is available in Arizona, and Hippo plans to expand it to states including Nevada and Oregon.

As demand for clean energy surges, would-be developers are struggling to find enough transmission lines to carry power to the people. One increasingly popular solution: retired coal plants. Much as a special-purpose acquisition company offers entrepreneurs quick access to public markets, a retired power facility offers renewable energy producers a back door onto the grid. Denmark’s Orsted AS, for instance, is developing a 1.1-gigawatt wind farm off the New Jersey coast that’s expected to go into service in 2024. The turbines will be at least 15 miles (24 kilometers) from shore, and Orsted plans to connect them to the grid at two onshore sites, a coal plant that retired last year and a nuclear plant that was shuttered in 2018.

Miami (AP) -- A giant video screen collapsed Thursday at a South Florida stadium, a day before the Rolling Loud hip-hop music festival was set to begin. There were no injuries. Organizers posted on Twitter  that the screen toppled over onto one of the festival's stages at Hard Rock Stadium in Miami Gardens, but it was expected to be repaired before doors opened Friday.

Anger over water shortages in Iran’s key oil region radiated nationwide Thursday as a recording of a protester assailing security forces as they attempted to stifle demonstrations spread on social media, aided by a top official. Thousands have been protesting this week across mostly southern areas of Khuzestan province over a lack of water, an issue worsened by record summer temperatures but rooted in historic neglect of a largely Arab region.

President Joe Biden hosted business and labor leaders at the White House on Thursday as a bipartisan group of senators neared an agreement that would allow the chamber to begin debating infrastructure legislation. Biden stressed how notable it was that two sides used to being at odds had instead joined together to back the bipartisan infrastructure framework. “They’re not here to negotiate with one another,” he said. Rather, “they’re supporting what we’re trying to get done in infrastructure.”

Bridging Finance Inc., the private lender that was seized by Canadian regulators amid an investigation of its top executives, has drawn interest from a “broad range” of potential bidders, according to the firm managing its affairs during the probe. PricewaterhouseCoopers said Friday it will soon seek court approval for a sales and investor solicitation process to market some or all of Bridging’s assets, and that it has already received indications of interest from multiple parties.

An interval of eight to 10 weeks between doses of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE boosts the effectiveness of the two-shot regimen compared with a shorter interval, a U.K. study found. “Eight weeks is probably the sweet spot,” in terms of the trade-off between getting as many people fully vaccinated as quickly as possible and allowing the population to produce higher antibody levels, professor Susanna Dunachie, the study lead from the University of Oxford, said at a briefing Thursday.

Biogen Inc. fought back against criticism of the unusual circumstances that led to the U.S. approval of its Alzheimer’s drug Aduhelm, saying in an open letter it has been the subject of “extensive misinformation and misunderstanding.” Aduhelm, approved in June, is controversial because it hasn’t been shown to slow cognitive decline. Two big tests were stopped early by Biogen and ended up producing contradictory results. But the Food and Drug Administration still gave it an accelerated clearance on the basis of its ability to remove an abnormal protein called amyloid from the brain.

FirstEnergy Corp. surged the most in more than five months Thursday after the Ohio utility reached an agreement with federal prosecutors over a corruption case involving a $1 billion state bailout for nuclear power plants. Under a deferred-prosecution agreement announced Thursday, FirstEnergy admitted that it conspired with public officials and others to pay millions of dollars in bribes. The company agreed to pay $230 million, the largest criminal penalty ever imposed by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Ohio.

Roche Holding AG said growth momentum for its Covid-19 testing business will probably abate in coming months, signaling a leveling off of the jackpot that fueled sales lately. Roche’s diagnostics unit swiftly developed a wide array of tests in response to the pandemic, buoying sales and making up for a more difficult time at the pharmaceuticals division, where aging cancer medicines face competition.

Bitcoin’s recovery this week after briefly dipping below $30,000 continues a pattern of rebounds when trading nears the 55-week moving average. The latest bounce reflects the third time since late 2019 that the largest cryptocurrency found support at that key level, including a year ago just ahead of a massive rally. By contrast, Bitcoin suffered extended losses after closing below the indicator in March 2020, and tumbled in 2018 when the price failed to break above the technical benchmark, the data show. Follow @crypto Twitter for the latest news.

Des Moines, Iowa (AP) -- Democrat Abby Finkenauer, a former congresswoman, is running for Republican Chuck Grassley's U.S. Senate seat, hoping her blue-collar credentials will propel her forward in a state that has grown more conservative over the years. The 32-year-old former state lawmaker, who announced her candidacy by video Thursday morning, would offer a stark contrast to the 87-year-old Grassley, who was elected to his first term in the Senate eight years before Finkenauer was born.

President Joe Biden said sanctions his administration leveled on the chief of Cuba’s military and its interior ministry on Thursday are only the start of U.S. retaliation for Havana’s crackdown against protesters. “I unequivocally condemn the mass detentions and sham trials that are unjustly sentencing to prison those who dared to speak out in an effort to intimidate and threaten the Cuban people into silence,” Biden said in a statement.

The Argentine government complained to Russia over delays in delivering its Sputnik V vaccine, saying the lack of supplies has left the South American country in a “very critical situation,” putting the government at risk. In an email dated July 7, Cecilia Nicolini, an adviser to President Alberto Fernandez, wrote that Russia hasn’t made good on commitments to deliver the second dose of its Sputnik vaccine. The email, first reported by newspaper La Nacion on Thursday, warns Russian authorities that the shortages “are leaving us with very little options to continue fighting for you and this project!”

Snap Inc. reported gains in revenue and users that exceeded analysts’ estimates, as the company’s investments in content and creative tools lured young people and the advertisers trying to reach them. Shares gained. Second quarter sales more than doubled to $982.1 million, the company said Thursday. That dwarfed the $846.9 million average analysts’ estimate. Snapchat, the mobile app for sending disappearing messages and watching video content, had 293 million daily active users in the second quarter, beating analysts’ expectations for 290.72 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.

Abbott Laboratories posted stronger-than-expected second-quarter profit and revenue results, even as demand for its Covid-19 testing products dropped when U.S. virus cases ebbed in the spring. Abbott shares had climbed 8.7% so far this year through Wednesday’s close. In Thursday premarket trading, the stock was up about 0.4%.

White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki accused China of “stonewalling” a World Health Organization investigation into origins of the coronavirus, including the possibility it escaped a Chinese lab, after Beijing said it wouldn’t participate. “We are deeply disappointed,” Psaki said at a briefing for reporters. “Their position is irresponsible and, frankly, dangerous.”

Simon Markets, a financial-technology platform that spun out of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., secured up to $100 million in a financing round led by growth equity firm WestCap. The funding round will enable the New York-based firm, which counts financial advisers as users, to expand into alternatives like private equity and hedge funds, as well as digital assets such as cryptocurrency funds, Chief Executive Officer Jason Broder said in an interview. Simon may also seek to expand into Europe and Asia, make strategic acquisitions and invest in portfolio analytics tools.

A final settlement between Brazilian authorities and the Samarco iron-ore venture can be reached this year, bringing legal certainty to owners Vale SA and BHP Group six years after a devastating tailings dam collapse. That’s according to federal prosecutor Carlos Bruno Ferreira da Silva, who said in an interview that the final reparation value is yet to be defined and will be based on independent technical studies.

U.S. Attorney General Merrick B. Garland shared new guidelines that clarify when the White House can turn to the the Justice Department for legal advice in a memo to agency staff on Wednesday. The guidelines, developed in consultation with President Joe Biden’s legal counsel, would ensure the agency’s enforcement decisions and legal work are free from “partisan or other inappropriate influences,” according to Garland’s memo.

A pair of stocks with practically the same name tumbled in their simultaneous market debuts on Thursday. Soft-drink maker Zevia PBC and customer communications platform Zenvia Inc. each traded below their initial public offering prices during their first session. It’s the latest coincidence after the unrelated doppelgangers conducted IPOs of the same exact size with the same exact price range on the same exact day -- compounding the potential for mistaken identity trades.

The Tokyo Olympics faced the latest in a series of PR disasters when they were forced to fire the director of the opening ceremony a day before it takes place, after a decades-old video emerged of him joking about the Holocaust. The scandal is the latest blow in the run-up to the games, which are taking place under unprecedented circumstances, mostly without spectators and against the wishes of much of the Japanese public as virus cases rise in the capital.

Investors rushing to secure a stake in PizzaExpress have pushed the price of its privately-traded shares up almost 50% in a week as the mid-market restaurant chain emerges from a bruising restructuring and the lifting of covid restrictions. Trading in the stock, which is mostly held by creditors who took over the company last year, drove the equity value of the business to about 400 million pounds ($550 million) this week, according to people familiar with the matter, who asked not to be named because they’re not authorized to talk about it.

Matterport Inc. is set to begin trading Friday on the Nasdaq under the symbol MTTR, after seeing a surge in demand for its 3D mapping products during the pandemic.  The software company is raising $640 million by  merging with special purpose acquisition company Gores Holdings VI Inc. and through a related funding round led by Tiger Global Management, Dragoneer Investment Group and others. The equity of Matterport and Gores Holding VI, backed by billionaire Alec Gores, is valued at $2.9 billion.

Chile’s government will relax some international travel restrictions three months after a surge in cases forced authorities to close the borders. As of July 26, fully-vaccinated residents will be able to travel from Chile by plane without special permission, health undersecretary Paula Daza said Thursday. Upon return, they will be allowed to complete a 10-day quarantine at home.

Follow @crypto Twitter for the latest news. The Reserve Bank of India is considering a “phased introduction” of a central bank digital currency as it will need legal changes to be made in the nation’s foreign-exchange rules and information-technology laws, Deputy Governor T. Rabi Sankar said.

The Biden administration is laying the groundwork to spend roughly $52 billion on semiconductor research and manufacturing even as it’s awaiting congressional approval of the funding, Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo said. “We’re putting plans in place right now already on the team to invest the $52 billion,” she said Thursday during a White House press briefing. “We need to incentivize the manufacturing of chips in America and so we are very focused on putting the pieces in place so that can happen.”

China Evergrande Group is exploring the prospect of listing its tourism business, according to people familiar with the matter, as the world’s most indebted developer seeks to convince investors it can generate enough cash to pay down borrowings. The company has held preliminary talks with advisers on a potential initial public offering for the unit, the people said, requesting not to be named because the matter is private. A share sale could happen as soon as next year, the people said.

(AP) -- Kanye West barely said a word during his album listening session Thursday night, but the mercurial rapper still had most attendees standing on their feet while hanging on every word of his new project. West unveiled his 10th studio album, “Donda” in front of a packed crowd at the Mercedes-Benz Stadium in Atlanta. His album was named after his mother, Donda West, who died at the age of 58 following plastic surgery complications in 2007.

JPMorgan Chase & Co. is planning to more than double the advisers in its traditional broker business as the Wall Street giant plots an expansion in wealth management amid intensifying competition for rich clients. The bank aims to hire more than 500 advisers in coming years, bringing its total in the unit to 1,000, said Kristin Lemkau, who oversees the lender’s U.S. wealth-management arm. JPMorgan will also try to knit the unit closer to wealth managers who work in retail branches and help advisers more efficiently guide clients to other parts of the bank.

Property investors are riding rapid home price appreciation and fast-rising rents to make record bets on the U.S. housing market. Investors bought nearly 68,000 homes in the second quarter, the most since at least 2000, according to a new report from brokerage Redfin Corp. Those purchases --including multifamily buildings, condos and single-family houses -- came at a cost of $49 billion, and represented 16% of home sales.

With Covid-19 shots reaching billions of people, reports have grown more common of people getting infected with the coronavirus despite being vaccinated. Just as a natural infection doesn’t guarantee protection from reinfection with the virus, neither does immunization provide a perfect shield. Still, those who have immunity -- either from vaccination or infection -- carry a fraction of the risk of those who have none. So-called breakthrough cases among the immunized are a reminder that as long as the pandemic virus is prevalent in the world, it remains a threat to everyone. First, it’s important to remember that testing positive indicates an infection with SARS-CoV-2, the coronavirus that can cause Covid-19. The disease is diagnosed only when the infection causes symptoms such as fever and cough; a significant proportion of people who become infected never develop symptoms. Although vaccines provide a strong defense against severe illness caused by SARS-CoV-2, none fully protects against the infection, meaning many vaccinated people are still at risk of catching the virus and of transmitting it to other people. The more SARS-CoV-2 is circulating in a community, the higher the chance of infection. In some instances, those infections will break through the protective shield that vaccine-induced immunity provides to cause Covid symptoms. In rare cases, the illness may be life-threatening. Another possible risk is so-called long Covid -- lasting fatigue, breathlessness and other symptoms seen in an estimated 1 in 10 Covid survivors; it’s unknown how well vaccines prevent these lingering problems.

Boston (AP) -- The most decorated man in NBA history will be giving the public a chance to own some of the prized memorabilia from his Hall of Fame career. Bill Russell announced Thursday he is offering hundreds of items from his personal collection, including trophies, rings, basketballs, jerseys, letters, photos and other keepsakes. The items span his 13-year career as a player and coach for the Boston Celtics, and also feature mementos chronicling his work during the civil rights movement and beyond.

Sign up for the New Economy Daily newsletter, follow us @economics and subscribe to our podcast. Indonesia’s central bank left its benchmark rate unchanged and pledged to maintain a “pro-growth” policy into next year as one of the most severe Covid outbreaks in the world puts the economy’s recovery at risk.

While the U.K. races ahead treating patients suffering from the long-term effects of Covid-19, the U.S. is falling behind as a result of its  decentralized health care system.  “Long Covid” — which surfaced after the first wave in spring 2020 — is estimated to afflict nearly a quarter of all patients, with symptoms such as chronic fatigue, muscle aches and brain fog persisting for weeks or even months.

Sadat Mannan, who led a desk at Barclays Plc that made hundreds of millions of dollars from tax-avoiding transactions before leaving last year, has found a new booming market at hedge fund Autonomy Capital Research LLP. Mannan, 41, helps lead the fund’s trading in derivatives linked to carbon, where prices have soared in Europe this year, according to people familiar with the matter. He quietly joined the firm last year and also serves as treasurer, reporting to Chief Investment Officer Robert Gibbins and Chief Executive Officer Ivan Ritossa, the people said. Jonathan Gasthalter, an external spokesman, declined to comment.

Cajoo is weighing options including a sale just six months after it started, people familiar with the matter said, after the fiercely competitive instant grocery delivery market forced the French startup to look for new ways to fund itself. The company has spoken to rivals about selling itself, the people said, asking not to be identified because the discussions were private. Cajoo managers have also held talks with venture capitalists about raising new funds.

Sign up for the New Economy Daily newsletter, follow us @economics and subscribe to our podcast. Welcome to Thursday, Europe. Here’s the latest news and analysis from Bloomberg Economics to help you start the day:

Drought is withering crops on both sides of the U.S.-Canadian border, prompting farmers to take the rare measure of baling up their wheat and barley stems to sell as hay. The bales are providing much-needed forage for livestock operators struggling against a lack of pasture and soaring feed costs, and also signal smaller grain harvests that could keep crop prices high in the months to come. Temperatures are expected to soar next week in the Great Plains, further threatening parched farm fields.

Africa must emulate India and produce more of its own vaccines, said Strive Masiyiwa, the telecommunications billionaire assigned to help the continent secure Covid-19 shots. If vaccine suppliers “want a long-term future with us,” they should manufacture their products on the continent, the African Union special envoy told a media briefing on Thursday. “When we got into trouble this time, it was because there was no production from the African continent,” he said.

Unemployment in Taiwan surged in June as companies in the service sector and their workers bore the brunt of the government measures aimed at slowing the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak. The unemployment rate jumped to 4.76%, the highest since November 2010 and well above the 4.25% median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists. A record 81,000 people joined the ranks of the unemployed in June, the largest month-on-month increase since the government began collecting data in 1978.

Akamai Technologies Inc., which handles web content delivery, said it has resolved an issue that caused a service disruption for several widely used websites. The company said the disruption was caused when a software configuration update triggered a flaw in the system that directs browsers to websites. The incident wasn’t related to a cyberattack, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company said, and it lasted for as long as an hour.

Union Pacific Corp.’s profit topped analysts’ estimates on efficiency gains even as the largest publicly traded railroad hustles to keep up with a cargo surge that has jammed ports and left shippers fretting over transportation capacity. Adjusted earnings per share were $2.72 in the second quarter, the company said Thursday in a statement, well above $1.67 a year ago when pandemic-related lockdowns temporarily put the brakes on freight. Analysts on average had expected $2.53 a share. Operating revenue jumped 30% from a year ago to $5.5 billion, compared with the average forecast of $5.38 billion.

Sign up for the New Economy Daily newsletter, follow us @economics and subscribe to our podcast. London’s jobs market has sprung back to life, becoming a hot spot for the first time since the pandemic closed vast sections of the economy, two separate surveys showed.

Ernst & Young faces accusations it “actively concealed” a six-year fraud from investors in a fresh lawsuit over its auditing work for the troubled NMC Health. The hospital operator’s founder, Bavaguthu Raghuram Shetty, said the accounting giant enjoyed a “deep and cozy” relationship with executives at the troubled firm, alleging that the auditors turned a blind eye to thousands of suspicious transactions. Shetty is seeking $7 billion from the lawsuit.

A hard turn to the left in South American politics may come with a silver lining for mining companies in the form of higher prices, according to Freeport-McMoRan Inc. Chief Executive Officer Richard Adkerson. Policy uncertainty in Peru and Chile, which account for about 40% of global copper production, is supportive of future prices as producers balk on pulling the trigger on investments, he told analysts on a call Thursday. The shifting political winds are part of the challenges that mining companies face in meeting growing demand as the world transitions away from fossil fuels.

Sapporo, Japan (AP) -- Two-time Olympic men's soccer champion Argentina was stunned 2-0 by Australia in their opening game at the Tokyo Games on Thursday. In its first Olympic game since 2008, Australia took the lead through Lachlan Wales' tap-in the 14th minute at the Sapporo Dome.

The U.K. government will sell more of its 12.5 billion-pound ($17 billion) stake in NatWest Group Plc over the next year, potentially returning the bank to majority private ownership for the first time since the financial crisis. U.K. Government Investments Ltd., the body that oversees state holdings, said sales on the open market could start as early as Aug. 12 and will end no later than Aug. 11, 2022, according to a statement Thursday. No more than 15% of the aggregate total trading volume in NatWest will be sold over the duration of the pre-arranged trading plan.

Billionaire Ricardo Salinas Pliego’s long-running tax dispute with the Mexican government is headed for review by one of the country’s Supreme Court justices in a case that could affect about $2 billion in claims. Justice Jose Franco is taking up the dispute between Salinas’s flagship Grupo Elektra SAB and the government over 2.6 billion pesos ($130 million) in income tax payments from 2006, according to documents on the court’s website.

Fast-growing delivery startup Gopuff is close to raising a $1 billion funding round valuing it at $15 billion, according to a person familiar with the matter. Blackstone Group Inc., a new investor in the company, is participating in the funding round, said the person, who asked not to be identified because the matter is private. Existing investor Fidelity will also be a part of the round, the person said.

Twitter Inc. reported second-quarter sales that topped analysts’ estimates, and gave a forecast for the current quarter that exceeded expectations amid global events such as the Olympics that drive advertising. Shares jumped about 5% in extended trading. Revenue will be from $1.22 billion to $1.3 billion in the period ending in September, the San Francisco-based company said Thursday in a statement. Analysts, on average, projected $1.17 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Second-quarter sales jumped 74% to $1.19 billion from a year earlier, compared with analysts’ estimates of $1.06 billion.

Uganda has added herbal remedies to treatments it recommends for the coronavirus even before concluding clinical trials as it battles a surge in cases driven by the delta variant. The government gave five acres (two hectares) of land to Jena Herbals Ltd. to immediately build a factory and ramp up production of its Covidex product, the Uganda Investment Authority said Wednesday. The substance contains extracts of berberine and zanthoxylum gilletii plants used as supplements and treatments of viral ailments. Gulu University in northern Uganda is expecting 3.7 billion shillings ($1 million) from the national treasury to support the development of a different solution called Covilyce.

Southwest Airlines Co. said it was “hopeful” of returning to profitability in the third and fourth quarters, amid concerns over the financial impact of a coronavirus variant and a recent rash of flight delays. The potential for an adjusted profit excludes any benefit from billions of dollars in airline aid provided by the U.S. government, Southwest said Thursday as it reported second-quarter results. The carrier recorded a profit in June, not counting federal funds, its first since the pandemic began. Delta Air Lines Inc. and United Airlines Holdings Inc. have both predicted a return to profit.

Hindustan Unilever Ltd., the Indian unit of Unilever Plc, missed analyst estimates for quarterly profit, hurt by rising raw material prices and a deadly second virus wave that crimped consumption demand. Asia’s biggest consumer goods firm by market value posted a 9.6% rise in net income that came in at 20.6 billion rupees ($277 million) for the quarter ended June 30, it said in an exchange filing Thursday. That compares with the 22.1-billion-rupee average profit forecast by analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Revenue rose 13% to 117.3 billion rupees, while volume growth was 9%, the filing said.

Financier Lex Greensill had “extraordinarily privileged” access to the U.K. government and his role as an adviser at the center of power gave him a “marketing platform” for his own business, an inquiry has found. A review of Greensill’s connections to the U.K. government -- led by independent consultant Nigel Boardman and published on Thursday -- will make uncomfortable reading for some of the officials and politicians involved.

On a good day, the leveraged-loan market looks stuck in the 1990s, with trades getting done through phone calls and instant messages. Then there are the days when your transaction finally settles after weeks or even longer, and the 1970s or earlier feels like the apt comparison.

Chile expects to start offering Covid-19 vaccinations to children under the age of 12 by September, as the nation presses ahead with one of the world’s fastest inoculation campaigns. The government’s procurement plans include shots for youth in that age range, Vice Minister of Trade Rodrigo Yanez said in a Bloomberg TV interview. Jabs from Sinovac Biotech Ltd. are a candidate for when the inoculation drive expands, given their efficacy against the virus and safety record, he said.

New York City has seen demand for hotel rooms rise to the highest since the outbreak of the pandemic, Mayor Bill de Blasio said, yet industry analysts say the tough times are far from over for a city that was once the nation’s most-popular tourist destination. City hotels sold more than 481,000 room nights last week, a 17,000 increase from the previous week, pushing the city toward exceeding a weekly goal of 500,000, de Blasio said Thursday.

McDonald’s Corp., the world’s biggest restaurant chain by sales, is promising to diversify its supply chain in the coming years, and it’s getting some help from key partners. About 25% of the company’s annual domestic supply-chain spending, or about $3.5 billion, will go to suppliers that are owned by women and minorities by 2025, McDonald’s said Thursday in a statement. This amount, an increase from its current level of about 23% of supply-chain dollars, will include spending by franchisees, who own and operate 93% of McDonald’s stores globally.

Mississippi called on the U.S. Supreme Court to overturn the constitutional right to abortion, raising the stakes in a polarizing clash the justices are set to hear in the term that starts in October. In a court filing Thursday, Mississippi Attorney General Lynn Fitch called the landmark 1973 Roe v. Wade ruling, which legalized abortion nationwide, “egregiously wrong.” She said the case for overturning Roe and a 1992 follow-up ruling was “overwhelming.”

Singapore leaders have justified a recent anti-Covid crackdown by warning about the impact the virus could have on unvaccinated senior citizens. The data shows it’s younger people who are getting infected in greater numbers. The sharp rise in cases that sparked tighter group limits and the reimposition of a ban on dining-in has largely been affecting the city-state’s younger -- and least fully-vaccinated -- population, according to data from the Ministry of Health.

European regulators cleared Moderna Inc.’s Covid-19 shot for children aged 12 to 17, offering a second weapon in the push to vaccinate teenagers on the continent as the delta variant spreads. The Olympics opening ceremony took place in nearly empty stadium in Tokyo, amid a record number of new infections linked to the games.

President Joe Biden urged more Americans to get vaccinated, saying that the coronavirus is only raging among those who have not received their shots and that those under 12 years old will be able to get inoculated “soon.” “We have a pandemic for those who haven’t gotten the vaccination,” Biden said Wednesday night during a CNN town hall in Cincinnati. “It’s that basic, it’s that simple,”

Star Entertainment Group Ltd. scrapped a $9 billion plan to merge with Crown Resorts Ltd. after allegations of tax evasion and lax money-laundering controls aired at a public inquiry put the future of Crown’s flagship Melbourne casino in doubt. “Substantial benefits could be unlocked by a merger, however the uncertainty surrounding Crown is such that Star is unable to continue at the present time with its proposal,” the company said Friday.

Kaseya Ltd. said it has obtained a decryptor for victims of a July 2 ransomware attack that affected as many as 1,500 companies. In an update on its website, the Miami-based company said it received the decryptor from a third party and has “teams actively helping customers affected by the ransomware to restore their environments.”

Instacart Inc. is teaming up with e-commerce technology startup Fabric to equip fulfillment centers with robots in an effort to speed up delivery and cut costs as it prepares for an initial public offering. The company is planning to build new standalone warehouses as well as fulfillment centers for supermarket partners, Instacart said in a statement Thursday. The multi-year deal is the first step in what the grocery delivery service calls a “next-gen” fulfillment process that will use Fabric’s robotic technology to pick items while gig workers deliver food to customers’ doorsteps. The company didn’t disclose financial terms of the partnership.

(AP) -- The Top 20 Global Concert Tours ranks artists by average box office gross per city and includes the average ticket price for shows Worldwide. The list is based on data provided to the trade publication Pollstar by concert promoters and venue managers. Week of (Month, Date) 2019 : TOP 20 GLOBAL CONCERT TOURS

Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Tanzanian authorities plan to charge the main opposition leader with conspiracy to commit terrorism, the police said.

Sign up to receive the Green Daily newsletter in your inbox. Climate change is hitting home everywhere. Just in the last few weeks, extreme heat, floods, and fires have all come to look like part of the new abnormal, and few places are safe. New York is issuing  air quality alerts because of wildfires some 3,000 miles west.

Amazon.com Inc. is investigating reports of toxic employee behavior in its cloud-computing unit, a move that follows an internal petition from employees claiming systemic harassment, bullying and bias against women and underrepresented groups. Amazon Web Services Chief Executive Officer Adam Selipsky last week emailed the authors of the petition, saying Amazon had retained an outside firm to investigate inappropriate conduct. Amazon also faces lawsuits from current and former employees alleging discrimination in the workplace.

Singapore’s home price growth slowed in the second quarter after virus restrictions deterred new launches and limited the number of people who could view apartments. Private property values rose 0.8% from the previous quarter, according to Urban Redevelopment Authority data released on Friday. That’s lower than the 0.9% flash estimates and less than the 3.3% growth in the first quarter.

“Show, don’t tell,” has always been a guiding rule for writers. Now it’s also the advice being given to home appraisers as the industry comes to terms with its own biases.   Fannie Mae, or the Federal National Mortgage Association, recently identified “problematic phrases” that should be avoided in appraisals — the valuation reports that it and others rely on to provide financing to would-be homeowners. Four examples of this language are listed in Fannie Mae’s June newsletter for appraisal professionals: “Crime-ridden area,” “desirable neighborhood,” “affordable neighborhood,” and “integrated community” are all considered bad for business now. Fannie Mae instead suggests more objective descriptions, like stating an area’s crime rate. This is all being done in service of the appraisal industry’s attempts to figure out how homes in predominantly Black neighborhoods routinely are priced at lower values than the same-sized and same-designed homes in white neighborhoods, even after accounting for neighborhood characteristics such as crime, poverty levels and proximity to amenities like parks. It’s what’s called appraisal bias or the appraisal gap, a problem that industry leaders were reluctant to acknowledge until very recently, despite decades of data showing such discrepancies.  Historically, federal housing officials and industry leaders encouraged appraisal professionals to judge home values by the color of the neighborhood rather than the house itself. Racial segregation directly informed how appraisers priced homes until the Fair Housing Act of 1965 and the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 outlawed conditioning home values based on race. However, neighborhoods across the U.S. have since remained mostly racially segregated, and so real estate professionals have found ways — both intentionally and unintentionally — to traffic in home evaluations based on race even without needing to explicitly say anything about race.  The new Fannie Mae language guidance acknowledges this, which is why it suggests that using a term like “integrated community” in appraisal reports is loaded because it signals the racial demographics of a neighborhood. “The valuation should focus on the property, not the residents,” reads the guidance. The problematic phrases are part of Fannie Mae’s list of unacceptable appraisal practices from its Selling Guide, which includes developing valuation reports based “either partially or completely on the sex, race, color, religion, handicap, national origin, familial status, or other protected classes” of the people who own the house or live in the neighborhood. Even saying something as seemingly benign as “desirable neighborhood” is problematic, in part because “desirable” has been coded as “white” throughout much of housing market history.  Read More: Four Ways Disparities in Homeownership Persist University of New Mexico sociology professor Elizabeth Korver-Glenn explores this history and how it determines how housing is sold today in her 2021 book Race Brokers: Housing Markets and Segregation in 21st Century Urban America. For her research she interviewed more than 70 appraisers and real estate professionals to get a sense of their methods. “In particular, they believed that White neighborhoods were the best, most desirable neighborhoods and that neighborhoods of color were less desirable,” writes Korver-Glenn. “They also assumed that White buyers were the ‘typical buyers’ whose taste would determine what was and was not ‘desirable’ and that ‘typical buyers’ would match neighborhood race.” There’s data to back this up as well: A study that Korver-Glenn and fellow researcher Junia Howell published last year found that a neighborhood’s racial composition was a “stronger determinant” of housing values in 2015 than it was in 1980 — in other words, the racial appraisal gap has only widened. Language changes may be a suboptimal way of addressing the problem. Korver-Glenn’s research suggests that the bias is actually baked into the methods and practices of the industry. For example, a standard way for appraisers to determine a house’s value today is by looking at what houses in the surrounding neighborhood have sold for. But since racial segregation is still entrenched in most neighborhoods across the U.S., that means the 20th century undervaluing of homes in Black neighborhoods has been carried over into 21st century appraising — “desirability” and maximized home values are still tied to a neighborhood’s whiteness. Which is why Korver-Glenn says that the Fannie Mae guidance on problematic phrases misses the mark. In an interview with Bloomberg CityLab, she likened it to a cookbook publisher advising bakers to drop the word “chocolate” from their published chocolate chip cookie recipes after a hypothetical finding that chocolate was unhealthy. “This intentionally ridiculous scenario helps illustrate what is problematic about the ‘avoiding problematic phrases’ guidance: Absolutely nothing has changed about the recipe, its ingredients or its bake,” said Korver-Glenn. “Expecting a different cookie result by deleting the word ‘chocolate’ is as realistic as expecting a different [or] less racist appraisal result by deleting some problematic, racially coded phrases.”Read more: What It Will Take to Close the Race Gap in Home Appraisals Fannie Mae’s selling guide for appraisers still lists among its unacceptable practices: “failure to comment on negative factors with respect to the subject neighborhood, the subject property, or proximity of the subject property to adverse influences.” For Korver-Glenn, that is evidence that “they are encouraging appraisers to avoid some racially coded words while doing exactly nothing to address the racist logic and methods that infuse and animate” appraisal work. Leaders at the Appraisal Institute and the Appraisal Foundation — organizations that develop training and standards for the industry —  recently decided to study the appraisal gap issue and are looking to institute new industrywide reforms in the near future. Among those changes is the creation of a “Personal Characteristics and Valuation Practice” guidance, which encourages appraisers to “ignore and avoid ethnographic and other personal characteristics in property appraisals,” and a new five-hour training course on unconscious biases.But appraisals are only one part of the issue in the broader landscape of housing discrimination. Sarah Wheeler, editor-in-chief of HousingWire, a publication for housing professionals, wrote in a recent newsletter that the new language guidance from Fannie Mae is “great advice not just for appraisers, but real estate agents and lenders too.”

The Philippine central bank has suspended the use of tokens offered by social media platform Lyka as a method of payments in the country, in a sign of tighter enforcement of rules on financial technology. The Hong Kong-based company allows its users to purchase, exchange and use so-called “gems” as payment for goods and services and must be registered as a payment system operator, Governor Benjamin Diokno said in a briefing on Friday, citing regulation.















(AP) -- The Top 20 Global Concert Tours ranks artists by average box office gross per city and includes the average ticket price for shows Worldwide. The list is based on data provided to the trade publication Pollstar by concert promoters and venue managers. Week of (Month, Date) 2019 : TOP 20 GLOBAL CONCERT TOURS

Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Tanzanian authorities plan to charge the main opposition leader with conspiracy to commit terrorism, the police said.

Sign up to receive the Green Daily newsletter in your inbox. Climate change is hitting home everywhere. Just in the last few weeks, extreme heat, floods, and fires have all come to look like part of the new abnormal, and few places are safe. New York is issuing  air quality alerts because of wildfires some 3,000 miles west.

Amazon.com Inc. is investigating reports of toxic employee behavior in its cloud-computing unit, a move that follows an internal petition from employees claiming systemic harassment, bullying and bias against women and underrepresented groups. Amazon Web Services Chief Executive Officer Adam Selipsky last week emailed the authors of the petition, saying Amazon had retained an outside firm to investigate inappropriate conduct. Amazon also faces lawsuits from current and former employees alleging discrimination in the workplace.

Singapore’s home price growth slowed in the second quarter after virus restrictions deterred new launches and limited the number of people who could view apartments. Private property values rose 0.8% from the previous quarter, according to Urban Redevelopment Authority data released on Friday. That’s lower than the 0.9% flash estimates and less than the 3.3% growth in the first quarter.

“Show, don’t tell,” has always been a guiding rule for writers. Now it’s also the advice being given to home appraisers as the industry comes to terms with its own biases.   Fannie Mae, or the Federal National Mortgage Association, recently identified “problematic phrases” that should be avoided in appraisals — the valuation reports that it and others rely on to provide financing to would-be homeowners. Four examples of this language are listed in Fannie Mae’s June newsletter for appraisal professionals: “Crime-ridden area,” “desirable neighborhood,” “affordable neighborhood,” and “integrated community” are all considered bad for business now. Fannie Mae instead suggests more objective descriptions, like stating an area’s crime rate. This is all being done in service of the appraisal industry’s attempts to figure out how homes in predominantly Black neighborhoods routinely are priced at lower values than the same-sized and same-designed homes in white neighborhoods, even after accounting for neighborhood characteristics such as crime, poverty levels and proximity to amenities like parks. It’s what’s called appraisal bias or the appraisal gap, a problem that industry leaders were reluctant to acknowledge until very recently, despite decades of data showing such discrepancies.  Historically, federal housing officials and industry leaders encouraged appraisal professionals to judge home values by the color of the neighborhood rather than the house itself. Racial segregation directly informed how appraisers priced homes until the Fair Housing Act of 1965 and the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 outlawed conditioning home values based on race. However, neighborhoods across the U.S. have since remained mostly racially segregated, and so real estate professionals have found ways — both intentionally and unintentionally — to traffic in home evaluations based on race even without needing to explicitly say anything about race.  The new Fannie Mae language guidance acknowledges this, which is why it suggests that using a term like “integrated community” in appraisal reports is loaded because it signals the racial demographics of a neighborhood. “The valuation should focus on the property, not the residents,” reads the guidance. The problematic phrases are part of Fannie Mae’s list of unacceptable appraisal practices from its Selling Guide, which includes developing valuation reports based “either partially or completely on the sex, race, color, religion, handicap, national origin, familial status, or other protected classes” of the people who own the house or live in the neighborhood. Even saying something as seemingly benign as “desirable neighborhood” is problematic, in part because “desirable” has been coded as “white” throughout much of housing market history.  Read More: Four Ways Disparities in Homeownership Persist University of New Mexico sociology professor Elizabeth Korver-Glenn explores this history and how it determines how housing is sold today in her 2021 book Race Brokers: Housing Markets and Segregation in 21st Century Urban America. For her research she interviewed more than 70 appraisers and real estate professionals to get a sense of their methods. “In particular, they believed that White neighborhoods were the best, most desirable neighborhoods and that neighborhoods of color were less desirable,” writes Korver-Glenn. “They also assumed that White buyers were the ‘typical buyers’ whose taste would determine what was and was not ‘desirable’ and that ‘typical buyers’ would match neighborhood race.” There’s data to back this up as well: A study that Korver-Glenn and fellow researcher Junia Howell published last year found that a neighborhood’s racial composition was a “stronger determinant” of housing values in 2015 than it was in 1980 — in other words, the racial appraisal gap has only widened. Language changes may be a suboptimal way of addressing the problem. Korver-Glenn’s research suggests that the bias is actually baked into the methods and practices of the industry. For example, a standard way for appraisers to determine a house’s value today is by looking at what houses in the surrounding neighborhood have sold for. But since racial segregation is still entrenched in most neighborhoods across the U.S., that means the 20th century undervaluing of homes in Black neighborhoods has been carried over into 21st century appraising — “desirability” and maximized home values are still tied to a neighborhood’s whiteness. Which is why Korver-Glenn says that the Fannie Mae guidance on problematic phrases misses the mark. In an interview with Bloomberg CityLab, she likened it to a cookbook publisher advising bakers to drop the word “chocolate” from their published chocolate chip cookie recipes after a hypothetical finding that chocolate was unhealthy. “This intentionally ridiculous scenario helps illustrate what is problematic about the ‘avoiding problematic phrases’ guidance: Absolutely nothing has changed about the recipe, its ingredients or its bake,” said Korver-Glenn. “Expecting a different cookie result by deleting the word ‘chocolate’ is as realistic as expecting a different [or] less racist appraisal result by deleting some problematic, racially coded phrases.”Read more: What It Will Take to Close the Race Gap in Home Appraisals Fannie Mae’s selling guide for appraisers still lists among its unacceptable practices: “failure to comment on negative factors with respect to the subject neighborhood, the subject property, or proximity of the subject property to adverse influences.” For Korver-Glenn, that is evidence that “they are encouraging appraisers to avoid some racially coded words while doing exactly nothing to address the racist logic and methods that infuse and animate” appraisal work. Leaders at the Appraisal Institute and the Appraisal Foundation — organizations that develop training and standards for the industry —  recently decided to study the appraisal gap issue and are looking to institute new industrywide reforms in the near future. Among those changes is the creation of a “Personal Characteristics and Valuation Practice” guidance, which encourages appraisers to “ignore and avoid ethnographic and other personal characteristics in property appraisals,” and a new five-hour training course on unconscious biases.But appraisals are only one part of the issue in the broader landscape of housing discrimination. Sarah Wheeler, editor-in-chief of HousingWire, a publication for housing professionals, wrote in a recent newsletter that the new language guidance from Fannie Mae is “great advice not just for appraisers, but real estate agents and lenders too.”

The Philippine central bank has suspended the use of tokens offered by social media platform Lyka as a method of payments in the country, in a sign of tighter enforcement of rules on financial technology. The Hong Kong-based company allows its users to purchase, exchange and use so-called “gems” as payment for goods and services and must be registered as a payment system operator, Governor Benjamin Diokno said in a briefing on Friday, citing regulation.

Executives at public companies are talking less and less about race-related issues during earnings calls, more than a year after the murder of George Floyd forced corporate America to  reckon with its own systemic bias. The usage of terms including “racism,” “equality” and “social justice” peaked on earnings calls for S&P 500 companies in the third quarter of 2020. Of those 500 calls, “racial injustice” was mentioned 36 times. Of the 118 calls that have taken place during the second quarter of this year, only one company — Adobe Inc. — used the term. There are 382 more calls left this earnings season.

Los Angeles (AP) -- Angelina Jolie scored a major victory Friday in her divorce with Brad Pitt when a California appeals court agreed with her that the private judge deciding who gets custody of their children should be disqualified. The 2nd District Court of Appeal agreed with Jolie that Judge John W. Ouderkirk didn't sufficiently disclose business relationships with Pitt's attorneys.

Nashville, Tenn. (AP) -- A conservative talk radio host from Tennessee who had been a vaccine skeptic until he was hospitalized from COVID-19 now says his listeners should get vaccinated. Phil Valentine's brother, Mark Valentine, spoke at length on WWTN-FM in Nashville on Thursday about his brother's condition, saying he is in a critical care unit on supplemental oxygen, but not on a ventilator. Phil Valentine has had an afternoon talk radio show on the station for years.

Australia succeeded in efforts to prevent the Great Barrier Reef from being listed as endangered by a United Nations organization after a diplomacy blitz. Members of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization committee on Friday voted against proposals to add the landmark to a list of at-risk World Heritage Sites, a move that would have triggered demands for additional conservation work.

Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack predicted the jump in U.S. food prices in June will quickly moderate despite rising concern about inflationary risks in the economy. “There are certain selective items in the grocery store folks may see for a period of time increased costs,” Vilsack said Friday in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Balance of Power” with David Westin. “We think this will even out as we begin to recover, as we begin to get the supply and demand in better balance.”

Across the globe, rebounding economic demand and strained supply lines continue to add to inflationary pressures. In Europe, fresh data show companies are passing along higher costs to consumers. Activity at U.S. service providers has come off the boil as firms struggle to fill open positions and ensure enough goods are in stock.

Jonathan Grunzweig, a longtime associate of Tom Barrack, is set to leave DigitalBridge Group Inc., the firm Barrack founded, according to a person with knowledge of the matter. Grunzweig was most recently chief investment officer of DigitalBridge’s “other equity and debt,” or non-digital, portfolio. His exit is expected to coincide with Fortress Investment Group LLC’s purchase of that portfolio, a deal announced last month and slated to close in the fourth quarter.

Chilean senate leader Yasna Provoste will run for president this year as her center-left coalition tries to regain control of the government after four years in opposition. Provoste, who is a member the Christian Democracy party, confirmed her aspirations in a televised speech and via Twitter.

Tokyo (AP) -- The athletes of the Tokyo Olympics were greeted by a few familiar notes Friday night. Those video game songs that get stuck in your head.

The White House on Friday announced plans to expand aid for mortgage borrowers who have fallen behind on payments during the coronavirus pandemic. Enhanced assistance will be provided to homeowners with government-backed mortgages who have been negatively impacted by the pandemic, with the aim cutting some monthly payments by roughly 25%, according to a White House fact sheet.

Russia on Friday accused elements in the U.S.-backed government in Kabul of blocking power-sharing negotiations and praised the Taliban as “reasonable people.” Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov urged rapid progress in talks on a political solution to the protracted civil war in Afghanistan as U.S. and other foreign forces leave the country after 20 years.

European regulators cleared Moderna Inc.’s Covid-19 shot for children aged 12 to 17, offering a second weapon in the push to vaccinate teenagers on the continent as the delta variant spreads. The authorization from the European Medicines Agency follows earlier green lights for the Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE shot -- which like Moderna’s product is based on messenger-RNA technology -- for people of that age bracket. Health authorities are rushing to inoculate as many young people as possible in the coming weeks before schools reopen. Moderna shares rose as much as 4.7%.

What keeps breaking the buck, is engaged in financial transformation, and keeps on growing?The stablecoin market. The value of the top four stablecoins has surpassed $100 billion in the space of four years, and the coins — which trade on a blockchain but attempt to maintain a one-for-one peg with fiat currencies — now form an integral part of the crypto ecosystem, often acting as the collateral behind DeFi and enabling transfers between crypto exchanges. But as the market grows, it’s also coming under increased scrutiny in part because it’s still unclear how stablecoin issuers are maintaining their pegs. Most of the criticism has so far been directed at Tether, which claims that its tokens are 100% backed by reserves, though it has released few details of what those are exactly. If Tether’s account of its reserves is accurate, then it’s  now a massive player in the commercial paper market which has historically been dominated by large investors such as regulated money market funds (MMFs). This is the reason why JPMorgan Chase & Co. strategist Josh Younger describes stablecoins as being “the primary interaction point between the crypto-native and traditional financial systems through their reserve funds.” The suggestion is that if stablecoins were to experience disruption, it could reverberate into financial markets through the commercial paper channel, again depending on what issuers hold:  The definition of shadow banks is notoriously fuzzy, but it typically includes non-regulated entities engaged in maturity or liquidity transformation — that is securing short-term funds to invest in longer-term assets, or converting illiquid assets into more easily spendable money. On that basis, stablecoins could well be taking questionable reserve assets and converting them into stable digital cash.This isn’t a problem as long as the stablecoin market avoids huge bouts of redemptions. So far that has been the case, even in the sharp crypto sell-off in May. That’s somewhat surprising given that — by Younger’s calculations — the top four coins have ‘broken the buck’ (i.e. dipped below their peg) with some regularity; having spent the past 30% to 40% of the past three months trading below par. But an unexpected disruption risks causing problems for exchanges and issuers which provide the coins. That in turn could feed into the traditional financial system through the key funding market which is commercial paper, and again raises questions of  financial stability given that stablecoin issuers are unregulated. That’s one reason why officials at the Federal Reserve have been talking about stablecoins, with Bank of Boston President Eric Rosengren recently keying in on their resemblance to traditional “but maybe riskier” prime money market funds.Back to Younger:

Malaysia has confirmed one case of an individual being injected with an empty syringe in its national vaccination rollout, categorizing it as a human error. The government further identified two cases where individuals were given an extra dose of the Coronavirus vaccine due to confusion, said Science, Technology, and Innovation Minister Khairy Jamaluddin in a briefing Friday.

As the coronavirus sweeps across the globe in relentless waves, a succession of more-infectious strains has washed up. So far delta, the variant first reported in India in October, is the most worrisome. About twice as transmissible as the original virus that emerged in late 2019, delta combines a multitude of genetic features that have enabled it to pierce public-health defenses to stoke severe epidemics and trigger fresh rounds of movement restrictions or delay planned easings of them. It’s the most infectious variant of SARS-CoV-2, the coronavirus that causes Covid, to emerge yet -- about 55% more transmissible than alpha, the previously most-infectious form, and almost twice as contagious as other circulating strains. The World Health Organization expects delta to rapidly outcompete other coronavirus variants and become the dominant strain of SARS-CoV-2 globally in coming months.

Tokyo (AP) -- The Nippon Budokan sits serenely nestled in a verdant park at the heart of Tokyo. Visitors admire the elegant lines of its Buddhist temple-based design before they step into the graceful reverence of the arena, where countless martial arts champions have been crowned since it opened in 1964 with the first Olympic judo tournament. The Budokan simply feels like a special place, even to those who don’t understand the astounding amount of sports and music history that has occurred under the flowing roof meant to evoke Mount Fuji.

Xponential Fitness Inc., the franchise owner of boutique fitness brands including Club Pilates and CycleBar, downsized its initial public offering and priced it below a marketed range to raise $120 million. The Irvine, California-based company sold 10 million shares on Thursday for $12 each, according to a statement. Xponential earlier offered 13.3 million shares for $14 to $16.

Virginia gubernatorial candidate Terry McAuliffe brought President Joe Biden to the vote-rich suburbs Friday as he works to keep a national focus in the race and tie his Republican opponent to former President Donald Trump. Speaking to an estimated 3,000 people at Lubber Run Park in Arlington, a heavily Democratic county outside Washington, Biden said the race would be seen as a bellwether of next year’s midterm elections.

Cleveland (AP) -- While riding his bike over a bridge across the Cuyahoga River near Progressive Field, Indians owner Paul Dolan rarely paid much attention to the eight giant stone figures that seem to guard the city. They have new meaning,

Environmental ministers from the Group of 20 nations were unable to reach full agreement on key climate goals, just 100 days before a critical international conference kicks off. Even after marathon negotiations that ran through the night, the ministers couldn’t find common ground on phasing out coal or how much to limit global warming, Italy’s Ecological Transition Minister Roberto Cingolani said at a press conference Friday in Naples. The divisions among the G-20 nations bode badly for United Nations climate talks set to start Oct. 31 in Glasgow. Leaders and diplomats including U.S. presidential climate envoy John Kerry have repeatedly stressed that the meeting, known as COP 26, may be the last chance to set international policies that would prevent the planet from warming more than 1.5 degrees Celsius (2.7 degrees Fahrenheit) from pre-industrial levels, which scientists say is key to staving off the worst impacts of climate change. “The G-20 accounts for 80% of all global emissions,” said Patricia Espinosa, head of the UN’s climate change secretariat. “There is no path to 1.5C without the G-20.” G-20 Set for Weak Climate Pledges in One More Setback Ending the use of coal, the dirtiest fossil fuel, was a major sticking point. Italy, which is hosting the G-20 meeting, pushed to include that goal within the official communique that will be issued Saturday. However, a number of countries including India and Russia resisted, Cingolani said at the press conference. The U.S., Canada and Europe were pushing for endorsing the goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees. They met pushback from a group of other countries that was unwilling to go beyond the 2015 Paris Agreement’s less ambitious target of 2 degrees. Cingolani said the nations reached a robust agreement on other fronts despite these areas of divergence, noting that this meeting marked the first time that climate and energy had been dealt with together by the G-20. Areas of disagreement will be addressed in October during the G-20 leaders’ meeting. This year is seen as a crunch time in climate policy, because all 197 countries in the Paris accord must submit enhanced national plans for cutting emissions. So far only 97 have done so, Espinosa said. That includes Indonesia, the world’s eighth-largest source of carbon emissions, which submitted a new national plan during the meeting. However, it had the same top-line emissions targets submitted five years ago. Its longer-term goals show that the country plans to peak emissions in 2030 and could reach net-zero greenhouse-gas emissions by 2060 or sooner. “Indonesia should step up its efforts to address the climate crisis,” Tjokorda Nirarta Samadhi, director of the World Resources Institute’s Indonesia office, said by email. The country should “commit to stop investing in new coal plants and reach zero deforestation by 2030, coupled with substantial reforestation.”

Japan’s Olympics organizers reported a record number of new daily coronavirus infections linked to the Games, including three athletes, bringing the total to 110 just hours before the opening ceremony is scheduled to start in a nearly empty stadium in Tokyo. Nineteen new Covid-19 cases connected to the event were reported on Friday, the highest daily figure since organizers started disclosing the data this month. One of the infected athletes is residing in the Olympic Village.

At least two of Hong Kong’s biggest lenders are reconsidering halts on mortgages for China Evergrande Group’s unfinished properties, after their decisions were questioned by the city’s de facto central bank, according to people familiar with the matter. The potential turnabout by HSBC Holdings Plc and Bank of China Ltd.’s Hong Kong unit comes just days after the banks suspended the mortgages amid mounting doubts about Evergrande’s financial health.

Honeywell International Inc.’s profit topped analyst estimates as the company’s aerospace and energy businesses started to recover from the pandemic-induced slump, adding to robust growth from factory-automation and building-safety products. The company raised its profit and sales outlook. Adjusted second-quarter earnings rose to $2.02 a share, soaring from $1.26 last year when airlines slashed services and oil prices dropped as people stopped traveling to stem the spread of Covid-19. Analysts had expected a profit of $1.94, according to the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales jumped 18% to $8.81 billion, while Wall Street projected $8.65 billion.

Joe Natale has a clear message as he tries to stick-handle Rogers Communications Inc.’s takeover of Shaw Communications Inc. through a maze of regulatory hurdles. He’s going to spend, and spend big. Canada’s telecommunications sector could shell out C$26 billion ($20.7 billion) by 2025 to roll out 5G mobile service, Natale said in an interview. Rogers, as the country’s largest provider, will shoulder a large share of that cost, including billions for wireless spectrum licenses.

The customary summer slowdown couldn’t come sooner for the participants in Europe’s debt market after an intense 18 months of deals and travel bans kept them tied to their desks. Junk debt sales for the year to date are already close to surpassing 2020’s record amount -- and the deals keep on coming. Investment grade issuance has slowed from the ferocious levels of debt-raising when the pandemic first struck, but activity throughout 2021 remained brisk right up until this week. September is looking no less busy.

India’s Environment Ministry has almost halved the time it takes to clear projects, cheering companies hit by the pandemic and worrying green activists concerned the increased pace may come at a cost. It took an average of 84 days to clear a project in 2021, compared with 162 days the year before, according to data shared by the ministry. That’s a result of cutting down needless processes and setting timelines for assessment panels, according to Rameshwar Prasad Gupta, the top bureaucrat in the ministry who took charge last year.

Taboola.com Ltd., which helps companies advertise on some of the world’s most popular websites and apps, agreed to buy e-commerce firm Connexity Inc. for about $800 million. Taboola will pay for the deal with $260 million in cash, $300 million in debt, and the rest through new shares.

Xponential Fitness Inc., the franchise owner of boutique fitness brands including Club Pilates and CycleBar, rose 2.1% in its trading debut after earlier sinking below its price in an anemic initial public offering. Shares of the company, which fell as much as 8.4% below their $12 offer price on Friday, closed at $12.25, in New York trading, giving Xponential a market value of $531 million.

Venezuela’s capital city is once again rationing gasoline after output at state-owned refineries slumped, forcing motorists to endure day-long queues to top off tanks. Shortages have returned to Caracas, prompting drivers to prowl the streets for open filling stations as lines stretch for blocks in some areas. Because of breakdowns at Petroleos de Venezuela SA fuel-making plants, gasoline output has crashed by more than 40% since the end of June, according to two sources with knowledge of the situation.

Singapore Airlines Ltd.’s Indian joint venture expects the last four Dreamliners from its Boeing Co. order to arrive by October 2022, a delay of up to seven months as the U.S. planemaker addresses flaws with the jet and the pandemic weighs on air travel. Vistara, which Singapore Airlines jointly owns with conglomerate Tata Group, has received two Boeing 787 Dreamliners and will get the four others on order in 12 to 15 months, Chief Commercial Officer Vinod Kannan said in an interview this week. Vistara previously said it would receive all six by March next year.

(AP) -- “Gold-Diggers Sound” is an apropos name for the third studio album of an artist who struck it rich six years ago with his debut LP. Leon Bridges’ music quickly earned him recognition. “Coming Home” was nominated for Best R&B album at the 2015 Grammys. Three years later, his sophomore album’s “Bet Ain’t Worth the Hand” landed him his first Grammy win.

Kimberly-Clark Corp.’s shares fell after the maker of household supplies missed Wall Street’s expectations for second-quarter earnings and trimmed its annual forecast, saying inflationary pressures and slowing toilet paper demand are hurting results. Profit this year will be $6.65 to $6.90 a share, the company said Friday in a statement, down from a prior expectation of as much as $7.55. It also reduced its projection for net sales growth to a range of 1% to 4%.

The chief executive of Danske Bank A/S said the lender still faces a number of hurdles, including a sluggish retail business, raising questions about management’s ability to live up to long-term profitability targets. Carsten Egeriis, who became CEO in April after his predecessor stepped down due to a money laundering probe, said Danske is still suffering from “reputational issues,” which are weighing on retail customer sentiment. On a conference call that followed quarterly results containing few surprises, Egeriis also signaled that any payout of excess capital would probably have to wait until after Danske knows the full cost of its Estonian dirty-money scandal.

Budapest, Hungary (AP) -- A new study suggests that a Sinopharm vaccine offers poor protection from COVID-19 among the elderly, raising questions for dozens of countries that have given the Chinese company’s shots to their most vulnerable populations. A survey of blood samples taken from 450 people in Hungary at least two weeks after their second Sinopharm dose found that 90% under 50 years old developed protective antibodies. But the percentage declined with age, and 50% of those over 80 had none.

Don’t sound the death knell for shopping malls just yet. Yield-starved bond investors are betting some will not only survive -- but thrive. Los Angeles-based real estate investment firm CIM Group on Friday morning sold $650 million of commercial mortgage-backed securities tied to the refinancing of one of its retail portfolios that includes 111 properties across the country, of which 50 are anchored shopping centers. The securities sold about in line with preliminary guidance.

The construction arm of Hyundai Motor Co., South Korea’s top automaker, will push ahead with a coal-fired power plant in Vietnam even as it pledges to end any new work involving the fossil fuel. Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co. will not participate in or invest in “new build coal-fired power plants either in Korea or abroad,” after fulfilling its existing commitments, the firm said Friday in an annual sustainability report.

General Motors Co. is recalling its 2017-2019 model year Chevrolet Bolt battery-powered cars for the second time in less than a year, after two vehicles that had been repaired in a previous recall caught fire. The company will replace battery modules in the hatchbacks after identifying the “simultaneous presence of two rare manufacturing defects” in the same battery cell, the automaker said Friday. GM in a November recall offered a software upgrade that limits recharging to 90% of full capacity as it worked to find a permanent remedy.

A little-known property company has been adding to its money-losing wager on China Evergrande Group, amassing bond holdings with a face value of $1 billion despite growing fears of a default. Asia Orient Holdings Ltd., led by secretive tycoon Poon Jing, disclosed its position in a Hong Kong exchange filing this week showing it and group firms had spent at least $230 million on Evergrande debt over the past year. Asia Orient added to holdings in the midst of a deep market selloff on June 9, while an affiliate made purchases about a week later.

This year, due to pandemic restrictions, few people will get to see any of the Tokyo Olympics in person. Instead, the world will watch via a range of TV and streaming options. Herein, a guide on how, when and where to tune into the 2021 summer Olympics.  Where to watch?

Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said Spain is open to all foreign investors when asked whether he’ll approve an Australian bid for a stake in Spanish utility Naturgy Energy Group SA. Asset manager IFM Global Infrastructure offered 5 billion euros ($6 billion) for a 22.7% stake in Naturgy in an unsolicited bid in January and officials are assessing whether to allow the transaction to go ahead.

A measure of activity at U.S. service providers settled back in July to a five-month low, reflecting businesses’ persistent struggle to fill positions and stock shelves. The IHS Markit flash index of purchasing managers in the service sector slipped to 59.8 from 64.6 a month earlier, the group reported Friday. While the gauge has softened since soaring to a record in May, it remains historically elevated. Readings above 50 indicate growth.

Purdue Pharma LP and its owners, members of the billionaire Sackler family, are betting big on a controversial area of bankruptcy law. The OxyContin maker has for nearly two years been working toward federal court approval of its landmark opioid settlement, which would hand all of its assets -- along with more than $4 billion from its owners -- to cities, states and counties fighting the U.S. opioid crisis. But the plan, which will finally be floated to its bankruptcy judge in the coming weeks, hinges on permanently insulating its owners from opioid lawsuits by way of a divisive legal maneuver.

Long hours during the pandemic and lengthy stints of working remotely have left some finance employees feeling miserable, but some junior staffers at Blackstone Group Inc. have a different story to tell. On Wednesday, a bunch of mostly twentysomethings -- in crisp suits and dresses, looking well-rested and smiling -- vied before the firm’s senior leaders to claim a $100,000 prize for a nonprofit of their choosing.

Canadian retailers have started to recover from the third major Covid-19 shutdown, which stunted shopping earlier this year. Receipts fell 2.1% in May, when many provinces had restrictions on businesses to combat the virus, Statistics Canada reported Friday in Ottawa. But retailers bounced back in June with sales rising 4.4% as rules eased, a preliminary estimate from the agency shows.

NASA selected Elon Musk’s SpaceX’s Falcon Heavy rocket to launch its scientific probe of the Jupiter moon Europa, which has liquid oceans that could harbor life. The contract for the Europa Clipper mission, scheduled to launch in October 2024, is worth $178 million, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration said Friday in a statement. The moon is approximately 390 million miles (630 million kilometers) from Earth, with the journey expected to take more than five years.

Atlanta (AP) -- A homegrown football hero and businessman supported by his longtime friend Donald Trump, Herschel Walker has an attractive profile for Republicans looking to reclaim a U.S. Senate seat in Georgia. But as he decides whether to run, a more complex picture is taking shape. An Associated Press review of Walker’s statements over the years, along with a cache of public records, some including previously unreported details, reflects a pattern of turbulent and sometimes threatening behavior that could dog Walker's Senate bid.

Companies across Europe are stepping up price hikes to cope with mounting cost pressure and business disruption, adding to the alarm bells about an inflation spike that could spell trouble for the economy. A survey Friday showed businesses raised prices at one of the fastest paces this century in July. It came hot on the heels of a chorus of executives at companies making everything from ice cream to industrial robots and chemicals who are feeling the heat from rising raw materials prices and snarled supply chains that’ve sent shipping costs through the roof.

A net of 30 hedge funds opened in the first quarter, the most since 2017, in a sign that the industry is rebounding after two years of net liquidations. That marks the third straight quarter in which startups outpaced closures, according to Hedge Fund Research.

Mexico is analyzing an increase in import quotas for food items including corn to help slow inflation if it doesn’t ease as expected, according to the nation’s top trade official. The country is studying measures to increase market competition, just as it did for products including chicken, pork, beef and gas, Mexican Economy Minister Tatiana Clouthier said in an interview in Washington on Friday.

Happy Friday, Europe. Here’s the latest news and analysis from Bloomberg Economics to take you through to the weekend:

Stocks of Chinese companies tumbled in the U.S., posting the longest losing streak in more than two years, over the risks posed by a potentially widening regulatory crackdown in the nation’s technology industry. The Nasdaq Golden Dragon China Index plunged 8.5%, the steepest drop since March 2020, after officials in Beijing were said to consider forcing companies that offer school tutoring to turn into non-profits. That drove the gauge, which tracks some of China’s biggest firms that are listed in the U.S., to its fourth straight weekly decline, its longest slump since May 2019.

Major League Baseball’s Cleveland Indians will be known as the Cleveland Guardians beginning in 2022, after saying last year that the team would review the name it’s had for more than a century. The team announced the name change in a video posted Friday morning. It also has a new logo: a winged baseball adorned with the letter G.

Owners of older office buildings in Manhattan have an expensive problem. With a record amount of space available in New York, including at the shiny new towers preferred by finance and technology companies, landlords of dated skyscrapers are in a tough spot, forced to plow cash into pricey renovations to stay competitive in a moribund market.

Some of the world’s biggest footwear and garment companies are seeing production pinched as factories in Southeast Asia struggle to keep the lights on amid one of the world’s deadliest Covid-19 resurgences. A number of firms that churn out products for global giants like Nike Inc. and Adidas AG have reported plant suspensions in Vietnam over the past few weeks as authorities impose restrictions to stop the virus. Other industries, such as Toyota Motor Corp. factories in Thailand, also are scaling back as multiple countries in the region see record high cases and deaths.

East Rutherford, N.J. (AP) -- In an era when NFL teams chose general managers from the ranks of former players, coaches and personnel executives, George Young was ahead of his time with the New York Giants. Young was a Renaissance man. He filled all the prerequisites and so much more in a career that earned the former high school teacher, coach and later NFL front-office executive a spot in the Pro Football Hall of Fame.

Core & Main Inc., a distributor of products such as water pipes and fire sprinklers, rose 19% after raising $698 million in an initial public offering priced at the bottom of a marketed range. The St. Louis-based company’s shares, which sold for $20 in the IPO, closed at $23.70 Friday. The company sold almost 35 million shares on Thursday after marketing them for $20 to $23.

A key Republican in the bipartisan Senate group working on a $579 billion infrastructure package said disagreements over transit funding and revenue sources that have held up a deal should be settled and legislative language agreed to by early next week. “We’re working through today and through the weekend,” Louisiana Senator Bill Cassidy said Friday on Bloomberg Television’s “Balance of Power With David Westin.” “We hope to have language either by Monday or by early next week.”

Pfizer Inc.’s Covid-19 vaccine provided a strong shield against hospitalization and more severe disease in cases caused by the contagious delta variant in Israel in recent weeks, even though it was just 39% effective in preventing infections, according to the country’s health ministry. The vaccine, developed with BioNTech SE, provided 88% protection against hospitalization and 91% against severe illness for an unspecified number of people studied between June 20 and July 17, according to a report Thursday from the health ministry.

Parents in the U.S. are paying a larger percentage of their children’s higher-education expenses, even as costs for college dropped during the pandemic. Through a combination of savings, borrowing and putting aside some of their current paychecks, parents are now footing about 54% of the bill for tuition, room, board and other expenses, according to a survey out this week from Sallie Mae, the student lender, and Ipsos, the polling company. That’s up 2 percentage points from the year before.

Deutsche Bank AG is accused of turning a blind eye to a years-long Ponzi scheme that involved fraudulent investments in Florida, expanding the growing list of legal and compliance headaches for Chief Executive Officer Christian Sewing. Liquidators of two now-bankrupt Cayman Islands investment funds sued the bank in New York and Florida, claiming it “enabled theft on a massive scale” that led to hundreds of millions of dollars in losses, court records show. Deutsche Bank maintained accounts for entities involved in the scheme despite repeated red flags and SEC sanctions against them, and it failed to enforce its own rules to prevent money laundering, the suits allege.

Airbnb Inc. and Expedia Group Inc.’s short-term-rental unit Vrbo announced in June that they were partnering to share information about repeat “party house” offenders. What they didn’t agree on was sharing details about properties they’ve banned after violent crimes have occurred there. That became an issue this week after Expedia permanently barred a Mexican villa where a 35-year-old New York City high school teacher was found naked, bruised and near-death three years ago while on a summer vacation. The incident, first reported in a July 20 Bloomberg Businessweek story, led to an immediate lifetime ban of the villa and its host by Airbnb, the platform used to book the stay. But it was only after the story was published that Expedia became aware of what happened and removed the listing from its platform.Unlike hotels, short-term rentals typically have no security guards or on-site support staff. It is up to the hosts who list their homes on the platforms to decide how they want to exchange keys with guests, who has access to the property and whether or not they want to install a smoke detector or put locks on bedroom doors. The lack of regulations has allowed short-term rentals to explode into the fastest-growing sector of the online travel market, collecting almost 30 cents of every dollar spent on hospitality today.

The European Central Bank said it will lift a cap on how much lenders can return to shareholders with dividends and share buybacks, while urging them to remain cautious given uncertainty in the pandemic. The ECB “decided not to extend beyond September 2021 its recommendation that all banks limit dividends,” the central bank said in a statement on Friday. “Instead, supervisors will assess the capital and distribution plans of each bank as part of the regular supervisory process.”

Volvo Cars’s chief executive officer offered an unusually candid take on the chip shortage stifling the global auto industry, airing frustration about the supply issue before a potential stock listing. The Chinese-owned Swedish carmaker reported record first-half results Friday, including a 41% surge in vehicle sales. While CEO Hakan Samuelsson expects deliveries to be roughly flat in the second half, he said scarce semiconductor supplies are to blame for the lack of growth.

Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter South Africa’s government said a third wave of coronavirus infections has passed its peak, a development that could give it scope to ease a ban on alcohol sales and other restrictions.

(AP) -- The Latest on the Tokyo Olympics, which are taking place under heavy restrictions after a year’s delay because of the coronavirus pandemic: ___

Trading in the calm currency market may be about to get rough. Seasonality tends to push up volatility in August amid reduced liquidity. Traders are already seeking protection ahead of key central bank gatherings in September, driving currency hedging costs sharply higher.

Spreads are blowing out between short-term German debt and its peers after the European Central Bank signaled it may not raise interest rates for years. The gap between U.K. and German two-year yields approached the widest since March 2020 on Friday, while the U.S.-German spread hovered near levels last seen eight months ago. Investors are snapping up German bonds after the ECB tied policy more tightly to its 2% inflation goal, and said it won’t necessarily react immediately if the target is exceeded for a “transitory” period.

India is discussing a plan to create so-called power islanding systems in several cities to protect critical infrastructure from potential attacks on the electricity grid, power minister Raj Kumar Singh said. Cities including Bengaluru, known as India’s Silicon Valley, and Jamnagar, which has two of India’s largest oil refineries, are among cities being assessed for an islanding system, Singh told lawmakers in parliament Thursday. Existing systems in cities such as New Delhi and Mumbai are being revamped, he said.



The Philippines has reimposed some restrictions in the capital, including barring children ages 5 and above outdoors anew, after it confirmed local transmission of the coronavirus’ delta variant. The Manila capital region, which accounts for about a third of the nation’s economy, will remain under general community quarantine but with heightened restrictions until July 31, presidential spokesman Harry Roque said in a statement Friday.

Carey Dunne spent decades at the top of the New York legal profession, making millions defending Wall Street banks and global corporations. But the 63-year-old had to leave his elite law firm to find the biggest case of his career -- investigating Donald Trump and his company. Before becoming Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance’s general counsel shortly after Trump’s 2016 election, Dunne was a senior partner at Davis Polk & Wardwell, one of New York’s most prestigious -- and profitable -- law firms.

Traders holding coffee beans in exchange warehouses are suddenly sitting on a jackpot. That’s because frigid temperatures have wiped out a chunk of the harvest for arabica beans in Brazil, the world’s top grower. So much was lost to frost, in fact, that it’s estimated to equal twice the amount of all arabica beans in warehouses monitored by ICE Futures U.S., the main exchange for trading coffee futures. That’s rapidly driving up the value of the beans -- some of which have been sitting in storage for as long as three years. On Friday, their price hit a six-year high, capping a 17% weekly surge.

More than 2,000 generic medicines made in Great Britain could be withdrawn from the Northern Irish market as a result of Brexit red tape, depriving consumers there of vital drugs. The British Generic Manufacturers Association, an industry trade body, said different regulations in the province post-Brexit could make it too costly and complex to supply medicines. Four out of five drugs used by the National Health Service are generic.

Vonovia SE’s roughly 19 billion-euro ($22.3 billion) offer for rival Deutsche Wohnen SE is collapsing after failing to secure enough shareholder backing. Germany’s largest residential real estate firm said in a statement Friday that it was unlikely to reach the minimum 50% acceptance threshold required for its offer to be successful.

Crown Resorts Ltd., facing a potential shutdown of its entire Australian casino empire, lost a lifeline on Friday after its closest rival withdrew a A$12 billion ($9 billion) merger proposal. Star Entertainment Group Ltd. scrapped its planned union after allegations of tax evasion and weak money-laundering controls at Crown, aired at a public inquiry, put the future of its competitor’s flagship Melbourne casino in doubt. Lawyers for the probe this week argued that Crown isn’t fit to run the facility, or even keep its gaming license.

The world’s biggest platinum miners are ramping up plans to build renewable energy plants to free them from power outages that have plagued South Africa for more than a decade and to reduce their carbon footprint. Sibanye Stillwater Ltd., the No. 1 platinum miner, Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. and Anglo American Platinum Ltd. said they plan to scale up solar and wind farms for their own use to cut reliance on state-owned utility Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., some of whose aging coal-fired plants have failed to keep up with electricity demand.

Argentina’s central bank is ruling out increasing interest rates for the foreseeable future even as currency pressures mount and annual inflation climbs above 50%. The country’s monetary authority is prepared to keep holding its key rate for months to come, according to people with direct knowledge of the matter. The central bank, know as BCRA, is betting that inflation will slow in the remainder of the year and is optimistic that international reserves will continue to grow, said the people, declining to be named discussing internal policy.

Ultra Electronics Holdings Plc received a 2.58 billion-pound ($3.55 billion) buyout approach from Cobham Ltd. and said it’s inclined to accept the bid to unite the two British manufacturers of defense and aerospace electronics. The shares jumped the most on record after Ultra said Friday that Cobham, owned by U.S. private-equity firm Advent International Corp., made a non-binding offer of 35 pounds per share. The offer is 42% higher than Ultra’s closing price on Thursday.

The endless flood of cash into exchange-traded funds this year is bypassing at least one corner of the $6.6 trillion U.S. market. Investors are set to withdraw millions from stock products pursuing a low-volatility strategy for the 17th month in a row, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.

Mexico City (AP) -- Alejandro Sanz just earned another accolade to go with his 29 Grammys: Olympic performer. The Spanish sensation joined John Legend, Keith Urban and Angelique Kidjo on Friday to spread the message of peace at the Tokyo Games in a pre-recorded rendition of “Imagine.”

Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Tanzanian authorities plan to charge the main opposition leader with conspiracy to commit terrorism, the police said.

Tom Barrack is set to be freed on a $250 million bond as he awaits trial on charges he illegally lobbied the U.S. government on behalf of the United Arab Emirates. Barrack, the founder of Colony Capital Inc. and a Trump ally, has been in a San Bernardino jail since his arrest Tuesday at an office park in Sylmar, California, his lawyers said in court Friday. His co-defendant and colleague, Matthew Grimes, 27, was arrested in Santa Monica and has also been held at the jail in San Bernardino. Grimes was to be released on a $5 million bond, secured in part by his parents’ $2.5 million Santa Barbara home. A third man charged in the case isn’t in U.S. custody and prosecutors said he fled after learning federal authorities had questioned Barrack.

European stocks climbed for a fourth day, reaching a fresh record just days after the Monday selloff as investors focused on positive earnings and reassurance of loose monetary policy in the region. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 1.1% by the close in London, surging to a new historical high, with a broad advance across sectors that included both cyclicals and technology. Vodafone Group Plc and Lonza Group AG both climbed after results beat estimates.

Billionaire hedge fund manager Alan Howard paid $59 million for a Manhattan townhouse in March. Just two months later he obtained a $30 million mortgage from Citigroup Inc. Denis Sverdlov, worth $6.1 billion thanks to his shares in electric-vehicle maker Arrival, recently pledged part of that stake for a line of credit from the same bank. For Edgar and Clarissa Bronfman the loan collateral is paintings by Damien Hirst and Diego Rivera, among others. Philippe Laffont, meanwhile, pledged stakes in a dozen funds at his Coatue Management for a credit line at JPMorgan Chase & Co.

Magna International Inc. will acquire Veoneer Inc. for $3.8 billion in cash, bolstering its business supplying advanced driver-assistance systems to automakers. The Canadian company’s $31.25-a-share offer represents a 57% premium to Veoneer’s closing price on Thursday. The transaction is expected to close toward the end of this year, according to a statement.

The U.S. revoked the threat of tariffs on Vietnamese goods after the two nations reached an agreement under which the Asian nation will allow more flexibility in its currency. The agreement between the U.S. Treasury and State Bank of Vietnam provides “satisfactory resolution of the matter,” and no trade action is warranted, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative said in a statement Friday. The USTR and Treasury will monitor Vietnam’s implementation, it said.

Israel’s new government will reexamine a deal to ship oil from the United Arab Emirates via Israel, with the energy minister contending it offers no benefits to the Israeli economy, the Haaretz newspaper reported. The agreement was signed in October 2020 by the previous government led by Benjamin Netanyahu. Environmental Affairs Minister Tamar Zandberg also opposes the deal, saying it could lead to severe ecological damage, the newspaper said on Friday.

Tom Barrack’s blank-check firm Falcon Peak Acquisition Corp. is scrapping plans for an initial public offering following his indictment on charges of illegally lobbying for a foreign government. The special purpose acquisition company on Friday notified the Securities and Exchange Commission that it was withdrawing its IPO “because the company has elected to abandon the transactions subject thereto.”

Some of Singapore’s top chefs say they’re fed up with the government’s on-again, off-again measures to stop the spread of Covid-19, which include a temporary shutdown of in-person dining. Australia plans to set new vaccination targets that would allow it to avoid lockdowns in future Covid-19 outbreaks, the prime minister said Saturday. The U.S. Justice Department has decided not to investigate New York State’s handling of Covid infections in its nursing homes. More Republicans are voicing support for vaccines amid the renewed spread of the virus, GOP Senator Bill Cassidy said.

Global investors from Tiger Global Management to Temasek Holdings Pte are reeling as China prepares to impose its harshest curbs yet on its $100 billion private tutoring and online education sector. China is considering asking companies that offer tutoring on the school curriculum to go non-profit, people familiar told Bloomberg News, potentially wiping out a big chunk of the billions that private equity and venture capital funds have staked on a once red-hot sector.

Sign up for the New Economy Daily newsletter, follow us @economics and subscribe to our podcast. The Bank of Russia may increase interest rates by the most since the ruble crisis in 2014 as it struggles to contain surging inflation.

The Tokyo Olympics, already struggling with an outbreak of Covid-19 among athletes, may face another kind of disaster -- a tropical storm. Tropical Storm Nepartak, which formed southeast of Tokyo, is approaching the nation and could make landfall next week, according to the Japan Meteorological Agency. Wind speeds could reach 46 miles (74 kilometers) per hour on U.S. wind scales, said the Joint Typhoon Warning Center, a U.S. Navy and Air Force forecasting operation in Hawaii.

Intel Corp. Chief Executive Officer Pat Gelsinger said the worst of a sales slump has passed and struck a bullish tone about the chipmaker’s prospects for the rest of the year and beyond. Investors are waiting to see proof that the company can regain dominance in the semiconductor industry.The key to winning them over will be Gelsinger’s ability to lure back some of the largest companies in technology -- cloud giants like Amazon.com Inc. and Alphabet Inc.’s Google -- whose purchases of server chips for data centers have been a main engine of Intel’s profit and growth. While demand for Intel’s server processors -- its most lucrative business -- picked up in the second quarter from the first, investors fretted that the division’s 9% year-over-year decline in sales may signal a long road to recovery. Intel’s Xeon chips, some of which sell for as much as a compact car, compete for business with souped-up offerings from Advanced Micro Devices Inc., and increasingly from the internal chip-design efforts of major cloud customers, who are keen to supply their own parts.Sales to those cloud providers like Amazon’s AWS and Google dropped 20% in the recent period, Intel said on Thursday in its second-quarter earnings report. Gelsinger projected double digit-percentage sales increases for the data center business as a whole in the second half of the year, and said he expects pricing and market share to remain stable. Still, prices dropped in the June quarter because of competitive pressure, and the unit won’t match its revenue total for 2019 this year, he said.

Tokyo (AP) -- The Olympic beach volleyball tournament got off to the quintessential coronavirus-era start. The event's very first scheduled match at the pandemic-delayed Tokyo Games was canceled on Saturday morning because a Czech player tested positive for COVID-19. That knocked Markéta Sluková, who tested positive earlier this week, and partner Barbora Hermannova out of the tournament.

Tokyo (AP) -- The Latest on the Tokyo Olympics, which are taking place under heavy restrictions after a year’s delay because of the coronavirus pandemic: ___

Tencent Holdings Ltd. was ordered to give up exclusive music streaming rights and pay half a million yuan in fines, becoming the latest Chinese internet giant to be brought to heel by regulators. An official investigation found Tencent’s 2016 acquisition of China Music Corp.’s stakes violated regulations partly because of a lack of reporting to authorities, according to a statement by the anti-trust watchdog on Saturday. The State Administration for Market Regulation required Tencent and its affiliates to waive exclusive music rights within 30 days and handed down a fine of 500,000 yuan ($77,145).

Singapore stocks are defying the nation’s latest lockdown, as traders bet that rising vaccination rates lead to a reopening of the economy. The benchmark Straits Times Index has risen almost 1% in July, snapping two months of losses, even after the latest virus outbreak swept through karaoke lounges and a fishery port. While the spread of the virus has prompted new restrictions, the government is holding onto plans to reopen the economy after vaccinating two-thirds of the population.

Beijing (AP) -- Internet giant Tencent was ordered by regulators to end exclusive contracts with music copyright holders, adding to increased enforcement of anti-monopoly and other rules as Beijing tightens control over booming online industries. Tencent controls more than 80% of “exclusive music library resources” following its 2016 acquisition of China Music Group, the State Administration for Market Regulation said Saturday. It said that gives Tencent the ability to get better terms than competitors receive or to limit the ability of rivals to enter the market.

We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Some of Singapore’s top chefs are fed up with the government’s on-again, off-again measures to stop the spread of Covid-19, which include a temporary shutdown of in-person dining.

For a fresh perspective on the stories that matter for Australian business and politics, sign up for our weekly newsletter. Australia’s government plans to set new vaccination targets that would allow the country to respond to future coronavirus outbreaks without restrictive lockdown measures.

Covid cases are skyrocketing around the world. The stimulus effect on the economy is fizzling. Inflation has just popped. There’s a lot to make investors nervous right now and it’s showing up in financial markets. In the U.S., investors are diving back into their pandemic favorites, sending the Nasdaq 100 Index to new records, and cash poured into bond and money-market funds this week.

The redevelopment of Athens’ old airport offered a unique chance to secure pristine sea-side homes close to a major city, and even before bulldozers start to roll, it may already be too late to buy one. Demand has been so strong that all of the apartments in the project’s 45-floor marina tower as well as the 27 beach-front villas available will be sold by the beginning of next year, if not earlier, according to Odisseas Athanasiou, chief executive officer of Lamda Development SA, the project’s developer.

South Korea passed its second-largest extra budget of the pandemic, seeking to shore up the economy as the country’s worst virus wave so far shows little sign of abating. The 34.9 trillion won ($30.3 billion) spending plan approved by lawmakers early Saturday is slightly larger than the original proposal submitted by the government. The budget includes a 250,000 won cash handout that covers most people in the country and will prove a timely bulwark against the economic damage from a semi-lockdown affecting half the population.

We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Some of Singapore’s top chefs are fed up with the government’s on-again, off-again measures to stop the spread of Covid-19, which include a temporary shutdown of in-person dining.

Traders are betting India’s record-breaking stock rally still has legs, fueled by expectations of continued dovish monetary policy even as inflation fears deepen. The nation’s NSE Nifty 50 Index has more than doubled from a March 2020 low -- one of the best performers in the world over the period and testing new peaks almost every month. It is also among Asia’s top gainers this month, beating the regional benchmark by about 4 percentage points.

For a fresh perspective on the stories that matter for Australian business and politics, sign up for our weekly newsletter. Australia’s government plans to set new vaccination targets that would allow the country to respond to future coronavirus outbreaks without restrictive lockdown measures.

The U.S. Justice Department has decided not to investigate New York State’s handling of the coronavirus in its nursing homes, the department said in a letter on Friday to a Republican opponent of Governor Andrew Cuomo. Deputy Assistant General Joe Gaeta wrote to Representative Lee Zeldin that the department’s Civil Rights Division had asked for information from the Cuomo administration last August “regarding Covid-19 and nursing facilities run by, or for, the State of New York.”

Politicians and scientists in the U.K. are concerned that people are deleting the official Covid-19 mobile phone app, or at least switching off its tracing function, to avoid having to self-isolate. Just under 620,000 people in England and Wales were “pinged” by the National Health Service Covid-19 app and told to isolate in the past week -- a record, and up from around 530,000 the week before, official figures show.

Singapore’s online real estate firm PropertyGuru Pte agreed to go public through a merger with Bridgetown 2 Holdings Ltd., the blank-check company backed by billionaires Richard Li and Peter Thiel, seeking to spur growth as its domestic property market sizzles. The combined entity is set to have a market value of about $1.78 billion, the companies said in a statement on Saturday. The deal will include a private investment in public entity, or PIPE, of about $100 million from investors including Baillie Gifford, Naya, REA Group Ltd., Akaris Global Partners, and one of Malaysia’s largest asset managers. REA Group also committed to invest an additional $32 million, according to the statement.

Europe’s southern countries can now claim the brightest collective outlook since the creation of the euro -- once the final hurdles of the coronavirus are overcome -- in a dramatic turnaround after two decades of malaise and crisis. With nearly half of the European Union’s 800 billion-euro ($942 billion) recovery fund flowing their way, officials and business people from Athens to Madrid are gearing up for an unprecedented period of investment that might just succeed in altering their economic destinies. Joblessness among people 15-24 is highest in southern Europe  Source: Eurostat Note: Data for 2020 “If you look at the sums of money that will be invested in countries like Spain, and Greece and Italy, these are extraordinary opportunities to change the path of longer-term growth,” Philipp Hildebrand, vice chair of BlackRock Inc., told Bloomberg Television earlier this month. “That’s the real historic opportunity that Europe now has.” Both during the coronavirus crisis and the sovereign-debt turmoil of the past decade, the region’s southern countries have proven the weakest link in the euro’s delicate structure, endangering the whole project of monetary union. The legacy is daunting. Nine of the region’s top 10 areas for youth unemployment are in southern Europe, ranging as high as 71% in Ceuta, an enclave of Spain. Greece is still scarred from a debt crisis that cost citizens a fifth of disposable income. Then there’s also more recent damage to repair from the pandemic. Spain suffered a contraction of more than a 10th of output in 2020 alone. For Italy, cumulative damage from the coronavirus and years of government deadlock means real gross domestic product is lower than it was when it joined the euro. That danger isn’t yet past, with variants of the virus threatening a new wave of infections over the summer that will hit tourism-dependent nations most. The Greek island of Mykonos is one example, forced by the government to impose a nighttime curfew and a complete ban on music in restaurants, bars and shops. Mykonos Mayor Kostas Koukas has attacked the latest restrictions, but is optimistic about the future. Spending slated for green and energy projects there augur the possibility that many islands can be connected to the mainland’s grid for the first time. “The importance for growth and society of ensuring uninterrupted electricity supply and not being dependent from oil is self-evident,” said Koukas. “Our islands will turn the page.” Greece will receive 30.5 billion euros of EU money, equivalent to almost one-fifth of the economy. Italy will get 192 billion euros in grants and loans, the largest payout of all. Topped up by national spending, around 40% of the money will target its poorer southern regions. Prime Minister Mario Draghi’s administration estimates economic output will increase by 3.6% by 2026. “Europe needs Italy to get back up to speed to succeed, due to the size of its economy, and Italy needs its south to accelerate to succeed,” said Eugenio Mazzarella, a professor at Federico II University in Naples. “It’s all inextricably tied together in a historic wager.” Italian and Greek economies are smaller than when they joined the euro Source: Bloomberg calculations on Eurostat data  Spain will receive around 140 billion euros in funds, around half of which are grants that don’t need to be repaid. With such eyewatering sums in mind, the 23 members of the National Association of Independent Builders are preparing to bid to work on contracts that focus on sustainable transportation, compensating for years of underinvestment. “We need new infrastructure and to maintain existing infrastructure,” said Concha Santos, president of the group. “This package is key to member states’ recovery.” While Moody’s Investors Service warns that Italy, Spain, Greece and Portugal will probably struggle to fully disburse EU grants and cheap loans, it reckons public investment in those countries will still double in the next five years compared to the previous half decade. The ratings company projects the EU package will boost economic expansion in southern Europe by around 0.5 percentage points annually on average between 2021 and 2027, a boon that could reach 0.7 percentage points if governments manage to spend it all. The benefit might be even greater if countries deliver on the pledges to achieve sweeping pro-growth and administrative reforms, which are tied to disbursements of the EU funds. They range from fixes to Spain’s troubled labor market to streamlining Italy’s creaking bureaucracy. The danger is that some of the money is wasted -- becoming another squandered moment for a region beset by challenges from huge public debts to poor population growth. “This is a once-in-a-generation opportunity because of the amounts of money that are concerned, and because it’s an integrated package of not just money but also reforms,” said Sarah Carlson, a Moody’s analyst. “The question that we have is, will they make the most of that?” In any case, even the creation of the recovery fund brings with it hope that one day it might become a permanent cushion against growth shocks, or something even more ambitious. “This could be a first step toward a joint fiscal capacity, and ultimately a fiscal union,” said Alexander Kriwoluzky, an economist at think tank DIW Berlin. “That could be a game changer for future generations.” — With assistance by Giovanni Salzano, and Catherine Bosley

South Korea passed its second-largest extra budget of the pandemic, seeking to shore up the economy as the country’s worst virus wave so far shows little sign of abating. The 34.9 trillion won ($30.3 billion) spending plan approved by lawmakers early Saturday is slightly larger than the original proposal submitted by the government. The budget includes a 250,000 won cash handout that covers most people in the country and will prove a timely bulwark against the economic damage from a semi-lockdown affecting half the population.

Europe’s southern countries can now claim the brightest collective outlook since the creation of the euro -- once the final hurdles of the coronavirus are overcome -- in a dramatic turnaround after two decades of malaise and crisis. With nearly half of the European Union’s 800 billion-euro ($942 billion) recovery fund flowing their way, officials and business people from Athens to Madrid are gearing up for an unprecedented period of investment that might just succeed in altering their economic destinies. Joblessness among people 15-24 is highest in southern Europe  Source: Eurostat Note: Data for 2020 “If you look at the sums of money that will be invested in countries like Spain, and Greece and Italy, these are extraordinary opportunities to change the path of longer-term growth,” Philipp Hildebrand, vice chair of BlackRock Inc., told Bloomberg Television earlier this month. “That’s the real historic opportunity that Europe now has.” Both during the coronavirus crisis and the sovereign-debt turmoil of the past decade, the region’s southern countries have proven the weakest link in the euro’s delicate structure, endangering the whole project of monetary union. The legacy is daunting. Nine of the region’s top 10 areas for youth unemployment are in southern Europe, ranging as high as 71% in Ceuta, an enclave of Spain. Greece is still scarred from a debt crisis that cost citizens a fifth of disposable income. Then there’s also more recent damage to repair from the pandemic. Spain suffered a contraction of more than a 10th of output in 2020 alone. For Italy, cumulative damage from the coronavirus and years of government deadlock means real gross domestic product is lower than it was when it joined the euro. That danger isn’t yet past, with variants of the virus threatening a new wave of infections over the summer that will hit tourism-dependent nations most. The Greek island of Mykonos is one example, forced by the government to impose a nighttime curfew and a complete ban on music in restaurants, bars and shops. Mykonos Mayor Kostas Koukas has attacked the latest restrictions, but is optimistic about the future. Spending slated for green and energy projects there augur the possibility that many islands can be connected to the mainland’s grid for the first time. “The importance for growth and society of ensuring uninterrupted electricity supply and not being dependent from oil is self-evident,” said Koukas. “Our islands will turn the page.” Greece will receive 30.5 billion euros of EU money, equivalent to almost one-fifth of the economy. Italy will get 192 billion euros in grants and loans, the largest payout of all. Topped up by national spending, around 40% of the money will target its poorer southern regions. Prime Minister Mario Draghi’s administration estimates economic output will increase by 3.6% by 2026. “Europe needs Italy to get back up to speed to succeed, due to the size of its economy, and Italy needs its south to accelerate to succeed,” said Eugenio Mazzarella, a professor at Federico II University in Naples. “It’s all inextricably tied together in a historic wager.” Italian and Greek economies are smaller than when they joined the euro Source: Bloomberg calculations on Eurostat data  Spain will receive around 140 billion euros in funds, around half of which are grants that don’t need to be repaid. With such eyewatering sums in mind, the 23 members of the National Association of Independent Builders are preparing to bid to work on contracts that focus on sustainable transportation, compensating for years of underinvestment. “We need new infrastructure and to maintain existing infrastructure,” said Concha Santos, president of the group. “This package is key to member states’ recovery.” While Moody’s Investors Service warns that Italy, Spain, Greece and Portugal will probably struggle to fully disburse EU grants and cheap loans, it reckons public investment in those countries will still double in the next five years compared to the previous half decade. The ratings company projects the EU package will boost economic expansion in southern Europe by around 0.5 percentage points annually on average between 2021 and 2027, a boon that could reach 0.7 percentage points if governments manage to spend it all. The benefit might be even greater if countries deliver on the pledges to achieve sweeping pro-growth and administrative reforms, which are tied to disbursements of the EU funds. They range from fixes to Spain’s troubled labor market to streamlining Italy’s creaking bureaucracy. The danger is that some of the money is wasted -- becoming another squandered moment for a region beset by challenges from huge public debts to poor population growth. “This is a once-in-a-generation opportunity because of the amounts of money that are concerned, and because it’s an integrated package of not just money but also reforms,” said Sarah Carlson, a Moody’s analyst. “The question that we have is, will they make the most of that?” In any case, even the creation of the recovery fund brings with it hope that one day it might become a permanent cushion against growth shocks, or something even more ambitious. “This could be a first step toward a joint fiscal capacity, and ultimately a fiscal union,” said Alexander Kriwoluzky, an economist at think tank DIW Berlin. “That could be a game changer for future generations.” — With assistance by Giovanni Salzano, and Catherine Bosley

Traders are betting India’s record-breaking stock rally still has legs, fueled by expectations of continued dovish monetary policy even as inflation fears deepen. The nation’s NSE Nifty 50 Index has more than doubled from a March 2020 low -- one of the best performers in the world over the period and testing new peaks almost every month. It is also among Asia’s top gainers this month, beating the regional benchmark by about 4 percentage points.

Tokyo (AP) -- The Olympic beach volleyball tournament got off to the quintessential coronavirus-era start. The event's very first scheduled match at the pandemic-delayed Tokyo Games was canceled on Saturday morning because a Czech player tested positive for COVID-19. That knocked Markéta Sluková, who tested positive earlier this week, and partner Barbora Hermannova out of the tournament.

Ireland is battling to keep its 12.5% corporate tax rate, even as most of its traditional allies seek to set a global minimum rate of at least 15%. This week, Finance Minister Paschal Donohoe opened up for public feedback after opting to join six other countries -- among 139 involved in talks -- holding out against an overhaul of the international tax system. Why is Ireland so wedded to its low-tax status, and what might happen next as negotiators move to finalize the plan?

Singapore stocks are defying the nation’s latest lockdown, as traders bet that rising vaccination rates lead to a reopening of the economy. The benchmark Straits Times Index has risen almost 1% in July, snapping two months of losses, even after the latest virus outbreak swept through karaoke lounges and a fishery port. While the spread of the virus has prompted new restrictions, the government is holding onto plans to reopen the economy after vaccinating two-thirds of the population.

Europe’s southern countries can now claim the brightest collective outlook since the creation of the euro -- once the final hurdles of the coronavirus are overcome -- in a dramatic turnaround after two decades of malaise and crisis. With nearly half of the European Union’s 800 billion-euro ($942 billion) recovery fund flowing their way, officials and business people from Athens to Madrid are gearing up for an unprecedented period of investment that might just succeed in altering their economic destinies. Joblessness among people 15-24 is highest in southern Europe  Source: Eurostat Note: Data for 2020 “If you look at the sums of money that will be invested in countries like Spain, and Greece and Italy, these are extraordinary opportunities to change the path of longer-term growth,” Philipp Hildebrand, vice chair of BlackRock Inc., told Bloomberg Television earlier this month. “That’s the real historic opportunity that Europe now has.” Both during the coronavirus crisis and the sovereign-debt turmoil of the past decade, the region’s southern countries have proven the weakest link in the euro’s delicate structure, endangering the whole project of monetary union. The legacy is daunting. Nine of the region’s top 10 areas for youth unemployment are in southern Europe, ranging as high as 71% in Ceuta, an enclave of Spain. Greece is still scarred from a debt crisis that cost citizens a fifth of disposable income. Then there’s also more recent damage to repair from the pandemic. Spain suffered a contraction of more than a 10th of output in 2020 alone. For Italy, cumulative damage from the coronavirus and years of government deadlock means real gross domestic product is lower than it was when it joined the euro. That danger isn’t yet past, with variants of the virus threatening a new wave of infections over the summer that will hit tourism-dependent nations most. The Greek island of Mykonos is one example, forced by the government to impose a nighttime curfew and a complete ban on music in restaurants, bars and shops. Mykonos Mayor Kostas Koukas has attacked the latest restrictions, but is optimistic about the future. Spending slated for green and energy projects there augur the possibility that many islands can be connected to the mainland’s grid for the first time. “The importance for growth and society of ensuring uninterrupted electricity supply and not being dependent from oil is self-evident,” said Koukas. “Our islands will turn the page.” Greece will receive 30.5 billion euros of EU money, equivalent to almost one-fifth of the economy. Italy will get 192 billion euros in grants and loans, the largest payout of all. Topped up by national spending, around 40% of the money will target its poorer southern regions. Prime Minister Mario Draghi’s administration estimates economic output will increase by 3.6% by 2026. “Europe needs Italy to get back up to speed to succeed, due to the size of its economy, and Italy needs its south to accelerate to succeed,” said Eugenio Mazzarella, a professor at Federico II University in Naples. “It’s all inextricably tied together in a historic wager.” Italian and Greek economies are smaller than when they joined the euro Source: Bloomberg calculations on Eurostat data  Spain will receive around 140 billion euros in funds, around half of which are grants that don’t need to be repaid. With such eyewatering sums in mind, the 23 members of the National Association of Independent Builders are preparing to bid to work on contracts that focus on sustainable transportation, compensating for years of underinvestment. “We need new infrastructure and to maintain existing infrastructure,” said Concha Santos, president of the group. “This package is key to member states’ recovery.” While Moody’s Investors Service warns that Italy, Spain, Greece and Portugal will probably struggle to fully disburse EU grants and cheap loans, it reckons public investment in those countries will still double in the next five years compared to the previous half decade. The ratings company projects the EU package will boost economic expansion in southern Europe by around 0.5 percentage points annually on average between 2021 and 2027, a boon that could reach 0.7 percentage points if governments manage to spend it all. The benefit might be even greater if countries deliver on the pledges to achieve sweeping pro-growth and administrative reforms, which are tied to disbursements of the EU funds. They range from fixes to Spain’s troubled labor market to streamlining Italy’s creaking bureaucracy. The danger is that some of the money is wasted -- becoming another squandered moment for a region beset by challenges from huge public debts to poor population growth. “This is a once-in-a-generation opportunity because of the amounts of money that are concerned, and because it’s an integrated package of not just money but also reforms,” said Sarah Carlson, a Moody’s analyst. “The question that we have is, will they make the most of that?” In any case, even the creation of the recovery fund brings with it hope that one day it might become a permanent cushion against growth shocks, or something even more ambitious. “This could be a first step toward a joint fiscal capacity, and ultimately a fiscal union,” said Alexander Kriwoluzky, an economist at think tank DIW Berlin. “That could be a game changer for future generations.” — With assistance by Giovanni Salzano, and Catherine Bosley

Tencent Holdings Ltd. was ordered to give up exclusive music streaming rights and pay half a million yuan in fines, becoming the latest Chinese internet giant to be brought to heel by regulators. An official investigation found Tencent’s 2016 acquisition of China Music Corp.’s stakes violated regulations partly because of a lack of reporting to authorities, according to a statement by the anti-trust watchdog on Saturday. The State Administration for Market Regulation required Tencent and its affiliates to waive exclusive music rights within 30 days and handed down a fine of 500,000 yuan ($77,145).

South Korea passed its second-largest extra budget of the pandemic, seeking to shore up the economy as the country’s worst virus wave so far shows little sign of abating. The 34.9 trillion won ($30.3 billion) spending plan approved by lawmakers early Saturday is slightly larger than the original proposal submitted by the government. The budget includes a 250,000 won cash handout that covers most people in the country and will prove a timely bulwark against the economic damage from a semi-lockdown affecting half the population.

Europe’s southern countries can now claim the brightest collective outlook since the creation of the euro -- once the final hurdles of the coronavirus are overcome -- in a dramatic turnaround after two decades of malaise and crisis. With nearly half of the European Union’s 800 billion-euro ($942 billion) recovery fund flowing their way, officials and business people from Athens to Madrid are gearing up for an unprecedented period of investment that might just succeed in altering their economic destinies. Joblessness among people 15-24 is highest in southern Europe  Source: Eurostat Note: Data for 2020 “If you look at the sums of money that will be invested in countries like Spain, and Greece and Italy, these are extraordinary opportunities to change the path of longer-term growth,” Philipp Hildebrand, vice chair of BlackRock Inc., told Bloomberg Television earlier this month. “That’s the real historic opportunity that Europe now has.” Both during the coronavirus crisis and the sovereign-debt turmoil of the past decade, the region’s southern countries have proven the weakest link in the euro’s delicate structure, endangering the whole project of monetary union. The legacy is daunting. Nine of the region’s top 10 areas for youth unemployment are in southern Europe, ranging as high as 71% in Ceuta, an enclave of Spain. Greece is still scarred from a debt crisis that cost citizens a fifth of disposable income. Then there’s also more recent damage to repair from the pandemic. Spain suffered a contraction of more than a 10th of output in 2020 alone. For Italy, cumulative damage from the coronavirus and years of government deadlock means real gross domestic product is lower than it was when it joined the euro. That danger isn’t yet past, with variants of the virus threatening a new wave of infections over the summer that will hit tourism-dependent nations most. The Greek island of Mykonos is one example, forced by the government to impose a nighttime curfew and a complete ban on music in restaurants, bars and shops. Mykonos Mayor Kostas Koukas has attacked the latest restrictions, but is optimistic about the future. Spending slated for green and energy projects there augur the possibility that many islands can be connected to the mainland’s grid for the first time. “The importance for growth and society of ensuring uninterrupted electricity supply and not being dependent from oil is self-evident,” said Koukas. “Our islands will turn the page.” Greece will receive 30.5 billion euros of EU money, equivalent to almost one-fifth of the economy. Italy will get 192 billion euros in grants and loans, the largest payout of all. Topped up by national spending, around 40% of the money will target its poorer southern regions. Prime Minister Mario Draghi’s administration estimates economic output will increase by 3.6% by 2026. “Europe needs Italy to get back up to speed to succeed, due to the size of its economy, and Italy needs its south to accelerate to succeed,” said Eugenio Mazzarella, a professor at Federico II University in Naples. “It’s all inextricably tied together in a historic wager.” Italian and Greek economies are smaller than when they joined the euro Source: Bloomberg calculations on Eurostat data  Spain will receive around 140 billion euros in funds, around half of which are grants that don’t need to be repaid. With such eyewatering sums in mind, the 23 members of the National Association of Independent Builders are preparing to bid to work on contracts that focus on sustainable transportation, compensating for years of underinvestment. “We need new infrastructure and to maintain existing infrastructure,” said Concha Santos, president of the group. “This package is key to member states’ recovery.” While Moody’s Investors Service warns that Italy, Spain, Greece and Portugal will probably struggle to fully disburse EU grants and cheap loans, it reckons public investment in those countries will still double in the next five years compared to the previous half decade. The ratings company projects the EU package will boost economic expansion in southern Europe by around 0.5 percentage points annually on average between 2021 and 2027, a boon that could reach 0.7 percentage points if governments manage to spend it all. The benefit might be even greater if countries deliver on the pledges to achieve sweeping pro-growth and administrative reforms, which are tied to disbursements of the EU funds. They range from fixes to Spain’s troubled labor market to streamlining Italy’s creaking bureaucracy. The danger is that some of the money is wasted -- becoming another squandered moment for a region beset by challenges from huge public debts to poor population growth. “This is a once-in-a-generation opportunity because of the amounts of money that are concerned, and because it’s an integrated package of not just money but also reforms,” said Sarah Carlson, a Moody’s analyst. “The question that we have is, will they make the most of that?” In any case, even the creation of the recovery fund brings with it hope that one day it might become a permanent cushion against growth shocks, or something even more ambitious. “This could be a first step toward a joint fiscal capacity, and ultimately a fiscal union,” said Alexander Kriwoluzky, an economist at think tank DIW Berlin. “That could be a game changer for future generations.” — With assistance by Giovanni Salzano, and Catherine Bosley

The U.S. Justice Department has decided not to investigate New York State’s handling of the coronavirus in its nursing homes, the department said in a letter on Friday to a Republican opponent of Governor Andrew Cuomo. Deputy Assistant General Joe Gaeta wrote to Representative Lee Zeldin that the department’s Civil Rights Division had asked for information from the Cuomo administration last August “regarding Covid-19 and nursing facilities run by, or for, the State of New York.”

Tencent Holdings Ltd. was ordered to give up exclusive music streaming rights and pay half a million yuan in fines, becoming the latest Chinese internet giant to be brought to heel by regulators. An official investigation found Tencent’s 2016 acquisition of China Music Corp.’s stakes violated regulations partly because of a lack of reporting to authorities, according to a statement by the anti-trust watchdog on Saturday. The State Administration for Market Regulation required Tencent and its affiliates to waive exclusive music rights within 30 days and handed down a fine of 500,000 yuan ($77,145).

Politicians and scientists in the U.K. are concerned that people are deleting the official Covid-19 mobile phone app, or at least switching off its tracing function, to avoid having to self-isolate. Just under 620,000 people in England and Wales were “pinged” by the National Health Service Covid-19 app and told to isolate in the past week -- a record, and up from around 530,000 the week before, official figures show.







The U.S. stock market, helped by the record economic expansion, will overcome higher interest rates and rally for at least another year, wealthy investors say in a new survey. Ninety percent of this elite level of active investors -- defined as those with annual incomes of $250,000 or more and $150,000 or more in stocks -- also plan to increase their stock holdings in the coming months or hold onto what they already have, according to a poll conducted by Penn, Schoen and Berland Associates for Bloomberg News.

Caldera Systems Inc., which makes software based on the Linux operating system, and FairMarket Inc., an online auction-site operator, are among companies looking to tap investor demand with initial public offerings next week. Caldera, based south of Salt Lake City in Orem, Utah, plans to sell 5 million shares at $7 to $9, raising $40 million. Woburn, Massachusetts-based FairMarket plans to sell 5 million shares at $13 to $15, raising $75 million.

U.S. mutual fund managers, many of whom have been reluctant buyers of high-priced Internet stocks, could soon feel compelled to buy more. Standard & Poor's will likely add more stocks it classifies as ``technology'' companies to its S&P 500 Index, the benchmark for most U.S. mutual funds, prompting managers to follow suit, said Merrill Lynch & Co. derivatives strategist Diane Garnick.

Carlton Communications Plc Chairman Michael Green raised about 28 million pounds ($44.3 million) by selling shares in the London-based television broadcaster and Web site operator on Thursday. Green sold 3.3 million shares at 845 pence, leaving him with just over 10 million shares, a stake of about 1.6 percent.

"We are the party of Ronald Reagan, not Pat Robertson....the party of Abraham Lincoln, not Bob Jones." -- Senator John McCain, on the influence of the Christian right on the Republican party

Citigroup co-Chief Executive John S. Reed's retirement in mid-April will leave Sanford I. Weill, 66, sole ruler of a $170 billion empire stretching over 100 countries. Many analysts are guessing that Weill, free from Reed's characteristically cautious approach to mergers, will switch to what he does best--buying up companies and squeezing out costs, especially in the U.S., where financial services firms are cheap. Citigroup, says Raymond James & Associates banking analyst Richard X. Bove, will become "maniacally aggressive." Not so fast, says Weill. Although he concedes that there are financial services firms that could be considered bargains in the U.S., "it's a little too early to tell" whether or not any of them will work with Citi's strategy. "We have to see what can be done with a branch," Weill says, adding that he's not convinced that Citi needs to expand its physical presence.

Intel Chief Executive Craig R. Barrett sounds nearly poetic when he describes why it has been so darn hard getting the giant chipmaker to charge into new businesses--and into the Internet Age, where the old rules of computerdom no longer hold. Not surprisingly, Barrett conjures up a Western metaphor. He does, after all, live in Arizona, commuting most weeks to Intel Corp.'s Silicon Valley headquarters. Barrett compares Intel's microprocessor business to the creosote bush, a tall desert plant that drips poisonous oil, killing off all vegetation that tries to grow anywhere near it. Microprocessors so dominated the company's strategy, he says, that other businesses could not sprout around it. Chips, he says, "are a dream business, with wonderful margins and a wonderful market position. How could anything else compete here for resources and profitability?" How, indeed, unless you have a CEO who is kicking up a sandstorm to find a way. Nearly two years after Barrett took the reins at Intel, the chip giant is in the midst of a historic overhaul that is transforming its business and its culture--for a second time. The first, back in 1985, Intel fled the memory chip business and bet the farm on microprocessors, turning itself from a diversified maker of chips into one focused solely on producing the electronic brains of personal computers. It was a brilliant move that set up the company for a golden period of growth under legendary CEO Andrew S. Grove. But now, the days of Intel concentrating virtually all its energy and investment on PC chips are gone.

Tuesday, Mar. 7, 8:30 a.m.EST -- Output per hour worked in the nonfarm business sector probably grew at an annual rate of 6%, says the median forecast of economists surveyed by Standard & Poor's MMS, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies. That leap in the rate, which would be the biggest productivity advance in seven years, is suggested by the upward revision to the fourth quarter's real gross domestic product. The Commerce Dept. now says real GDP grew at a 6.9% annual rate, up from the initially reported 5.8% pace. The upward revision to productivity means that unit labor costs probably fell at a rate greater than 2%, more than the 1.1% first reported. The new forecast for productivity would mean that output per work hour rose by about 3.6% for all of 1999, the largest gain since 1992. Tuesday, Mar. 7, 3 p.m. EST -- Consumers probably added $7.5 billion in new debt in January, says the S&P MMS forecast. That's slightly below the $8.2 billion averaged monthly in 1999, but at yearend, borrowing surged. New debt jumped by $15.8 billion in November and $11.2 billion in December. Strong consumer finances are making households feel very comfortable about taking on large quantities of debt. That's the reason credit outstanding at the end of 1999 equalled a record 20.6% of disposable income.

The big job for J. Smoke Wallin last year was to get his family's liquor-distribution business, Indianapolis-based National Wine & Spirits Inc., on to the Internet. But Wallin, 33, discovered a raft of online upstarts was setting up much broader sites that could slice off big chunks of the alcoholic-beverage industry--leaving distributors such as National in the lurch. So instead, he formed eSkye.com Inc., a national marketplace for beverage makers, distributors, and retailers to buy and sell online. Spits Wallin: "I don't want some kid out of Silicon Valley with a nose ring to come in and take over my business." Neither do thousands of other traditional companies under fire from cheeky dot-coms. By forming electronic marketplaces or exchanges on the Web, hundreds of upstart online sites are scrambling to make themselves the new commercial hubs of industries from aerospace to waste management. Operating as middlemen between suppliers and their customers, they charge a small percentage of each transaction. Now, like Wallin, the incumbents are firing back and staking their claims on the Net. And they're doing so with a haste that wows even dot-com rivals.

From one end of Corporate America to another, you can't find an executive who has anything but admiration for Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan's deft nurturing of the U.S. economy. But amid the high praise are growing murmurs of concern that he has let the good times go on for too long and now risks tipping over the economy. With gross domestic product rising at an astonishing annual rate of 6.9% in the fourth quarter of 1999, the worry on Wall Street--and among a few anti-inflation hawks at the Fed--is that Greenspan has allowed the unemployment rate to fall too low, the stock market to rise too high, and too much liquidity to slosh around the system. To keep inflation in check, Fed watchers say he may need to raise interest rates by much more than the two quarter-point hikes many investors expect.

Almost overnight, the nation's college campuses got wired. Students now sign up for classes and receive final grades over campus networks. They view professors' Power Point presentations in their dormitory rooms, consult faculty advisers using e-mail and stay in touch with friends back home or down the hall via the Internet. The hot movie on campus the other weekend was The Beach, downloaded from the Internet and playing (illegally) in dorm lounges across the country. At Massachusetts Institute of Technology, even some of the campus laundry rooms are online--the washing machines are able to send students e-mail when a load is done. "I don't even remember how it happened," says Mamta Motwani, who arrived at the University of Texas at Austin 1992 and is finishing up a PhD in higher education. "All of a sudden, it was just there." High tech has become the latest recruiting tool colleges are using to woo a generation of students who grew up around personal computers. Colleges try to have enough shared computer facilities to go around. But with virtually every school now strongly suggesting that students have their own computers, you now have to add a host of tech questions to those you have about academic and athletic programs.

Marissa Emmer certainly recognizes that Levi Strauss is an all-American brand. But the 15-year-old high school sophomore from Setauket, N.Y., and her friends won't wear anything from Levi's. "It doesn't make styles we want," says Emmer, who prefers baggy pants from JNCO and Kikwear. "Levi's styles are too tight and for the older generation, like middle-aged people." Ouch. This is what Philip A. Marineau, Levi Strauss & Co.'s new chief executive, is up against as he struggles to make the San Francisco apparel giant cool again. In the top job since September, the marketing veteran from PepsiCo Inc. is taking on a company whose fortunes in recent years have faded faster than a new pair of jeans. Marineau vows to get the venerable, family-owned company growing again. After three years of tumbling sales, layoffs, plant closings, and a failed effort to woo kids online, Levi's is gearing up for several product launches. "Levi's is a mythical brand, but our performance has been poor," says Marineau, 53. "We need to turn our attention back to customers and have more relevant products and marketing."

"There has to be a day of reckoning and we have to invest in a way to ameliorate the pain when that day comes. But painful as it may be, there is one good thing about that day; it is the day reality returns to the markets." -- Julian H. Robertson Jr., in a memo to investors, Jan. 7, 2000 It's an annual ritual at every money management firm: the yearend review. Performance is discussed, goals hammered out. In a bull market, this tends to be a pleasant experience. But on the 48th floor of 101 Park Avenue in Manhattan, the gleaming offices of Julian H. Robertson Jr.'s Tiger Management LLC hedge-fund group, the bull market is but a distant rumor. Only a year and a half before, Robertson was the master of the hedge fund universe--running the largest funds, boasting an enviable track record. But by December, a shrunken Tiger was concluding the worst year in its history--a 19% decline that trailed the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index by a staggering 40 percentage points.

Take a whiff of this: Professor Joseph Stetter and researcher Bill Penrose from the Illinois Institute of Technology in Chicago have developed several prototypes of an electronic nose that could let doctors sniff out tuberculosis by its odor. One prototype is a cylinder about the size of a thimble with electronic sensors inside. Another is a vibrating crystal--it looks like a transparent dime--that absorbs bacteria from the air. Soon, the researchers intend to plant one of these tiny wonders in a tuberculosis-detecting breathalyzer: a small bag with a tube that you blow into. The challenge is to make the artificial schnozz more sensitive. One way to do that, researchers say, is to take large, one-gallon breath samples and condense them into the cylinder, thus boosting sensitivity up to one-thousandfold.

It's no secret that nonunion discounter Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and organized labor are sworn enemies. So when the world's largest retailer marched into the food business in recent years, with its giant supercenters and grocery-like Neighborhood Markets, it might as well have been waving a red cape before a bull. No wonder the United Food & Commercial Workers union (UFCW) is charging--to protect the jobs of the 1 million of its 1.4 million members who work in supermarkets. And after more than a decade of sparring, with little result, the union is suddenly scoring some surprising victories. On Feb. 17, the UFCW won the first union election in a U.S. Wal-Mart store. Although the vote involved just 11 meat-department workers in a Jacksonville (Tex.) supercenter, the win gives the union a big psychological boost. "These employees took on the giant and showed other Wal-Mart workers across the country it can be done," crows UFCW organizer Brad L. Edwards. Already, workers at 100 other Wal-Mart outlets have called to ask about holding elections, say UFCW officials. The next test may come soon among meat-department workers at a Palestine (Tex.) store. The company is challenging the election results in Jacksonville. What's more, on Feb. 28 it revealed plans to buy prepackaged meat for its U.S. stores and eliminate most of its meat counter jobs around the country. Company officials insist the move is unrelated to the union-organizing drive.

On the fourth floor of a plain, Pasadena  (Calif.) office building, behind a set of fake-wood-veneer doors, you'll find three of the world's most accomplished investors. They manage more than $25 billion, much of it for one of the nation's most popular 401(k) options. But chances are you've never heard of Primecap Management, much less its three chief stock-pickers, Howard Schow, Theo Kolokotrones, and Joel Fried. That's how they like it. Staying quiet helps Primecap keep some of its best ideas close--stocks such as Ortel, a little-known maker of lasers and optical gear. Primecap first bought it in April, 1998. When it sank to 6 last spring, the firm got more. Since Lucent Technologies agreed in February to buy Ortel, the stock has topped 189. Primecap's average cost: 12.

Securities & Exchange Commission Chairman Arthur Levitt Jr. has the accounting industry right where he wants it: On the ropes. The scandal caused by PricewaterhouseCoopers' violations of auditor independence rules--in which half of the firm's partners were found to own stocks in companies it audited--has accountants cowering.  The SEC has taken a tough stance, directing Compaq Computer Corp. to drop PWC as its auditor and ordering follow-up probes at seven other top firms. But Levitt is pursuing a more ambitious goal: He hopes to harness public outrage to force big accounting firms to split their audit work from lucrative consulting practices, a move the Big Five have long fought. The ploy is classic Levitt. From encrusted stock exchanges to overcompensated brokers, the 69-year-old SEC chief holds strong views on industry practices that, based on his long Wall Street career, he believes harm investors. He forces change through a mix of jawboning public speeches and stern private scoldings of industry leaders. He doesn't hesitate to use his bully pulpit or the SEC's considerable powers to steer the financial industry toward reform. If all else fails, he regulates.

Applying for early acceptance to college used to be simple. If you were a top-notch candidate and willing to commit to a specific school by the fall of your senior year, you could often win admission to one of your leading choices and spare yourself months of angst. It's not that simple anymore. Today, college applicants and their parents must sift through a confusing array of early-decision choices with varying deadlines, rules, and such bizarre terminology as Early Decision I and Early Decision II, nonbinding early action, early open, and rolling admissions. Laments Carol Halstead, president of New York public relations firm Halstead Communications, whose daughter is a senior at Brearley School: "I'm a bewildered mother--and I've worked with colleges and universities for 20 years."

Some savvy pros have high hopes for Internet banking: They have been accumulating shares of S1 Corp. (SONE), the leading provider of technology solutions that enable financial institutions to offer online banking services. S1, formerly called Security First Technologies, has developed software systems that let companies create their own Internet financial portals, or to outsource them to S1's data center. "S1 dominates this niche business so well that we bought more shares when the stock slipped recently," says Jerry Apodaca of Apodaca Investment Group in San Francisco. The stock, trading at 25 last summer, rocketed to 129 on Feb. 11, then slumped to 96 on Feb. 28. "This pioneer has a lot more upside ahead of it," Apodaca argues. He thinks the stock will hit its intraday high of 145 again. It closed at 115 1/8 on Mar. 1. Citigroup, Royal Bank of Canada, and Zurich Financial Services are among the banks that have signed up to adopt the S1 solution rather than develop in-house facilities for Web banking and related services. S1 also has strategic relationships with companies that have purchased equity stakes and that co-develop products and provide additional sales channel for S1's solutions. They include Andersen Consulting, BroadVision, Intuit, and Comdisco. S1 expects more strategic allies.

A team of U.S. officials arrived in Quito on Feb. 28 to discuss with Ecuador's government its plan to adopt the dollar as the country's official currency. Ecuador's decision to swap the sucre for the greenback has rekindled a long-running debate over dollarization in Latin America. Panama has used the dollar since 1903. Argentina and Mexico have flirted with the idea in the past couple of years. And experts believe other Latin nations, such as Venezuela and Peru, would be better off with the dollar. It's a controversial topic that can get nationalist politicians--as well as economists--excited. Advocates of dollarization, mostly academics and executives, argue that nothing beats the greenback for quickly bringing down inflation and interest rates in unstable economies. Adoption of the dollar also eliminates currency risk, or the threat of a devaluation, thus encouraging investment.

The news caught many by surprise: On Feb. 2, Moody's Investors Service announced that it was contemplating granting Mexico investment-grade status (Baa1) for its foreign currency debt. The move has sparked a debate among Mexico watchers over whether the country is really ready to join the select group of investment-grade nations. In Latin America, only Chile is now a member of that club. Is Moody's rushing to judgment? It seems so. The upgrade could come as early as April, just months before the presidential election in July, which promises to be the most open and hotly contested in history. The rub is that in Mexico, every presidential transition for the past quarter century has been accompanied by a steep devaluation and economic collapse.

Peter Goodfellow, the outspoken geneticist who will become head of drug discovery for Glaxo SmithKline when its merger is finalized this summer, lists his interests in Who's Who as soccer, science, and sex. The last item is a tongue-in-cheek reference to the 48-year-old scientist's most important achievement to date: the discovery of the male sex-determination gene. These days, Goodfellow is spending most of his time on science. One of the top executives at what is soon to be the world's biggest pharmaceutical house, Goodfellow views genomics, the study of genes and their function, as the route to revolutionizing the industry. By the end of this year, the sequencing of the entire human genetic makeup--otherwise known as the genome--will be complete. It's the biologist's equivalent of the Holy Grail, since it could dramatically improve the understanding, diagnosis, and treatment of disease. "It's the most important discovery of the new millennium," says Goodfellow. Gene-based drugs also promise to cut bloated drug-development costs because genomic data will lead to better, safer drugs. And they will likely be developed faster.

In May of last year, in response to a question after giving a speech in Chicago, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan suggested that employers' continuing strong tendency to lay off workers may actually be promoting job creation. Whereas companies once viewed hiring new workers as a heavy commitment, the knowledge that they can also let workers go if conditions warrant may have made them less reluctant to boost payrolls. The American Management Assn.'s latest annual survey of nearly 1,200 major companies doesn't address this notion directly, but its findings tend to support it. While the ranks of companies eliminating positions, as well as those of companies adding new ones, rose last year (chart), the share of employers who reported doing both jumped to its highest level in at least five years. By mid-1999, 72% of those eliminating jobs during the previous 12 months said they had also created new positions.

If Texas Governor George W. Bush's trifecta primary win on Feb. 29 propels him to the Republican Presidential nomination, Senator John McCain's reform candidacy won't be the only casualty. Increasingly, it looks as if the GOP's ruling elite will react to McCain's insurgency, which was fueled by independents and crossover Democrats, by slamming the door on open primaries. There is growing talk of returning to old-style caucuses or closed primaries restricted to card-carrying Republicans. Big mistake. As of 1999, only 27% of Americans identified themselves as Republicans. Nearly 40% of the electorate considers itself independent or "other." Party loyalty is waning on both sides, and no GOP standard-bearer has captured more than 42% of the popular vote in the last two Presidential elections. Supply-siders and conservative Christians might have a firm hold on Republican Party strings, but they're no good at picking winners--a point McCain drove home in Virginia on Feb. 28, when he assailed the Religious Right for its "politics of division." Whether they support McCain or not, if GOP moderates want to recapture the White House, they would be better off pushing the party to keep the primaries open.

The first semester of her freshman year at the University of Arizona was an unexpected nightmare for Jodi Katz. While she had always found that reading was a struggle at her high school in West Islip, N.Y., getting through all her homework was becoming an impossible battle. She would read passages over and over without understanding a word. With her grade point average hovering at 1.9., Katz was desperate. Then her adviser suggested she pay a visit to the university's Strategic Alternative Learning Techniques Center for students with learning disabilities. After a battery of tests, Katz was diagnosed with reading retention and writing problems, and she enrolled in the program. It worked wonders. She graduated last December with a 4.0 average in her major, business administration, and quickly landed a job as a software tester for IBM in San Jose, Calif. Says Katz, now 23: "I don't think I would have graduated if I hadn't joined SALT."

When Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan told Congress on Feb. 17 that he intended to raise interest rates, one target clearly was the sizzling stock market. Evidently, the dot-com set wasn't listening. While the staid old Dow Jones industrial average has slipped since then, the tech-heavy Nasdaq exchange climbed to a record 4780 on Mar. 1. "Economics is for economists," says JDS Uniphase Corp. Chief Financial Officer Anthony R. Muller, himself an economist by training. His San Jose (Calif.)-based company, which makes fiber-optic components used to build the Internet, has seen shares rise 23%, to $264, since Feb. 17--leaving it with a $92 billion valuation eclipsing that of General Motors Corp. The simple reason: Demand is expected to continue soaring for its products as high-bandwidth networks spread. "Our business is driven by demand for the Internet," he says. "That, more than Fed policy or any macroeconomic considerations, is what drives our business."

The World Wide Web has become an amazing cornucopia of free goodies. While giving products away may be a dubious business proposition, we consumers may as well enjoy it while it lasts. The latest free service to blossom is online storage, with companies offering 20 megabytes or more of space on their servers. Twenty MB isn't a lot of space, and it would cost only 30 cents to get that much more on your computer, so it doesn't seem like a great deal. But you can do things with online storage that you can't with a regular hard drive. You can share files with friends or colleagues or easily get access to files from home, work, or on the road. My main reservation concerns the security and privacy of information stored online.

Poor-mouthing a business rival is not exactly unheard of, but the Web has made possible a particularly nasty sort of attack--cybersniping. Take the case of Steven Cade, a local school board president and head of privately held La Jolla Club Golf Co. in Vista, Calif. On Feb. 24, Cade posted a two-part apology on Yahoo!, admitting that he had used 27 different pen names to post 163 messages disparaging his much larger rival, Callaway Golf Co. As "craigleifer," he encouraged Callaway shareholders to "get out before the next down tick occurs." As "biggolfretailer," he posed as a  store owner who complained that the Callaway company had "lost their ability to design new technology." Cade is finding out Callaway is no company to fool with. The maker of Big Bertha drivers--with $697.6 million in annual revenues--doesn't mind going to court and regularly chases down companies that make knockoffs of its clubs and golf balls. After subpoenaing Yahoo records, it didn't take Callaway long to discover Cade's real identity. When confronted, Cade apologized on Yahoo, saying he "got caught up in the Internet."

Just four months ago, DualStar Technologies (DSTR) was a little-known company whose stock was languishing at about 4. Since then, the stock has shot up--to 11 on Feb. 9 before easing to 9 7/8 on Mar. 1. The stock caught fire after Blackacre Capital Management agreed in December to invest $46.2 million for a 51% stake in DualStar. The company "wires" high-rise buildings, including the Empire State Building in New York, for such systems as high-speed Internet access, direct broadcast satellite and cable TV, and telephones. It also designs and controls energy and environmental systems at these buildings. "DualStar remains an attractive buy despite the stock's runup," says Stuart Rudick of Rudick Asset Management in Mill Valley, Calif. He notes that, with Blackacre, DualStar will be able to broaden its market. The deal with Blackacre gives DualStar first refusal on rights to deliver voice, video, data, energy, security, and other services to properties owned or controlled by Blackacre.

In 1994, Katherine MacNamara, who had just completed her sophomore year in high school, spent two weeks exploring New York's Finger Lakes. But this was no summer vacation. MacNamara and 35 other high school students were studying the environment from the perspectives of biology, geology, philosophy, and economics. Their teachers: professors at the affiliated Hobart and William Smith colleges. Summer programs, like this one by Hobart and William Smith's Environmental Studies Summer Youth Institute, are popular choices for high school students. Hundreds of colleges and universities are offering residential programs for 14- to 17-year-olds who may want to hone their debating skills, immerse themselves in Chinese literature, or get hands-on instruction in aeronautics. "You get a feel for what you will be studying in college," says MacNamara, now a 21-year-old senior and biology major at William Smith in Geneva, N.Y. She intends to go on to graduate work in cellular and molecular biology.

Michael J. Jackson is a glutton for punishment--and stock options, too. Last summer, the 51-year-old former car mechanic was basking in the success of turning once-ailing Mercedes-Benz into one of the hottest luxury-car brands in the U.S. Then he got a call from Florida billionaire H. Wayne Huizenga. Would Jackson take charge of his deeply troubled car retailer, AutoNation Inc.? So much for what Jackson once called his "dream job." Two months of negotiations later, the trim, dapper Jackson had quit his job as president of Mercedes-Benz USA Inc. to sign up for the top job at AutoNation. With it came the challenge of taking on auto retailing's biggest problem child.

There are few leaders in the world more powerful than the director of the International Monetary Fund. Yet the selection process for choosing the IMF director resembles the worst kind of closed-door politics, long since abandoned in America. The process is undemocratic, unrepresentative, and overlooks some of the best people for the job. The recent row over the next IMF director, with the U.S. rejecting outright Europe's choice, illustrates the sad state of affairs and the need to change them. By custom the IMF job has always gone to a European and the top World Bank job to an American. Perhaps it made sense to divide up the jobs decades ago. It doesn't now. The most qualified candidate should run the IMF, regardless of nationality. It still makes sense to pick someone from among the countries that provide most of the IMF's funding, but the selection process should take place in the light, not the dark, and the candidates' positions on key issues should be made known to one and all. This is especially important at this moment in time.

Who will capture the new electorate of the New Economy? Will either political party be able to reconfigure itself to incorporate one of the fastest-growing segments of the voting population? These are among the most significant questions emerging in this heated Presidential primary season. The Pew Research Center for the People & the Press, which has an ongoing project studying the beliefs, values, and priorities of American voters, recently uncovered what it calls  the New Prosperity Independents. A product of the high-tech, fast-growth U.S. economy of the '90s, this group accounts for 11% of registered voters, compared with 10% for liberal Democrats and 12% for staunch conservatives. This newly emergent electoral group is basically a nonpartisan swing group that leans slightly toward the Republican Party, according to the Pew center. As the New Economy expands, these new independent voters are sure to increase and exert a growing influence on the political system. It appears that Senator John McCain won most of their votes in the earliest primaries. But they do not conform to conventional political views or fit easily within either political party.

It was no surprise when Steven Rattner, deputy chairman of Lazard Freres, said that he was leaving the well-known investment bank on Feb. 29. But where he was headed and who he was taking with him did turn heads on Wall Street. The former New York Times reporter, and the man known for placing Lazard's media mergers and acquisitions practice on the map, is now off to build his own media empire. Rattner announced this week that he is forming Quadrangle Group, a private investment firm that will specialize in investing in the media and communications industries. Joining him as founding partners are fellow Lazard executives David Tanner, Peter Ezersky, and Joshua Steiner. They have already raised about $250 million and hope to come up with $1 billion to be invested in media companies at various stages of development. The firm's advisory board is a who's who of the media and telecom world, including such luminaries as USA Networks Chairman Barry Diller and cellular titan Craig McCaw.

It was a rough week for Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. On Feb. 29, British-owned Cable & Wireless HKT walked away from SingTel's cash-and-stock takeover offer. That's the third strategic tie-up in Asia that SingTel has lost in the past two years: Malaysian cellular network Binariang declined a SingTel acquisition offer in 1998, and Celcom, another Malaysian network, did the same in January. And with the C&W HKT deal in ruins, Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. quickly canceled plans to purchase 4% of SingTel for $1 billion. There's a lesson here. SingTel eagerly desires alliances to grow into a multinational telco. But it will never make it so long as the government holds on to its 76% share of the company. The truth is, these deals might have gone through if SingTel were publicly held. Beijing simply doesn't want the Singapore government controlling Hong Kong's largest telephone utility, bankers and diplomats believe. Thus, it supported local tycoon Richard Li. The same sentiment is evident in Kuala Lumpur.

It's not clear what all the fuss is about ("Cyber Crime," Cover Story, Feb. 21). The solution for the large "denial of service" hits to Yahoo!, eBay, and E*Trade is so obvious: legal responsibility. All owners of Net-connected computers where the hackers were able to plant their "traffic generators" are guilty of generating the traffic that blocked the target sites. Just because others planted the generators should not absolve them of blame and liability for damages. The hackers were able to use those machines only because the machines had inadequate security.

Israel is finally emerging from its worst recession ever. A combination of tight fiscal and monetary policy in the late '90s had slowed growth to its lowest levels in more than a decade. Real gross domestic product grew by just 2% last year, and when population growth is factored in, per-capita GDP actually declined. Still, a return to the Middle East peace process by new Prime Minister Ehud Barak, coupled with a surge in demand for the country's high-tech exports and stronger consumer spending, has led to renewed optimism. The Israeli economy was picking up by the end of 1999, and for 2000, it is expected to grow above 4% (chart). Exports of goods and services rose a hefty 7.4% in 1999 and are set to increase even faster in 2000 because of continued growth in the high-tech sector as well as an expected rise in tourism. Even the government deficit may be lower than the 2.5% of GDP target, thanks to an unexpected surplus in January tax receipts.

Even veteran Hollywood dealmakers are taken aback by the way aggressive new dot-coms are wooing stars, writers, and directors to their startups in hopes of being to the studio business what Amazon.com is to books. A case in point: Late last year, Rob Burgess, the co-founder of Shockwave.com, a San Francisco-based animation site, signed South Park creators Matt Stone and Trey Parker to provide 39 "webisodes" of the show in return for $1.5 million in cash and an equity stake in the site. Riding in a limo with the duo's agent and lawyer right after sealing the deal, Burgess turned to them and said "So, who else do you have?" That led to yet another deal to pay Sleepy Hollow director Tim Burton $2 million and some Shockwave stock to produce an odd animated series called Stain Boy. Says P. Kevin Morris, the lawyer who rode with Burgess that day: "The sky seems to be the limit."

The hunger for Internet stocks in Europe borders on desperation. Facing slim pickings, investors have bid up an Italian Net company, Tiscali, to a loftier stock market value than Fiat--in a country where less than 10% of the population surfs the Web. Spain's Terra Systems, a sprawling  portfolio of Latin Net companies, enjoys a market cap of $33.6 billion, well above Amazon.com's $22 billion. But now, investors have an even bigger Europe Net play to sink their teeth into. Deutsche Telekom is preparing to spin off 10% of its Internet access service, T-Online International, in an initial public offering that could value the unit at $40 billion. With 4.2 million subscribers, T-Online is Europe's most popular way to get on the Internet. What's more, unlike rivals such as America Online Inc., Deutsche Telekom has a precious link to the mobile phone, which could make T-Online a monster of the coming rage, the mobile Internet.

Before praising former "rock thrower" Joschka Fischer and German Greens for business friendliness ("Surprise, the German Greens are marching with business," International Outlook, Feb. 28), sobriety would be well advised. In reality, German Greens are about as business-friendly as Jorg Haider is foreigner-friendly. Despite their recent rhetoric, they continue to vehemently oppose and hinder almost every major infrastructure project, industry, and new technology in Germany. Examples include not only atomic power and biotechnology but also genetically modified foods, high-speed trains, airport and seaport expansions, new highways, bridges, cars, and tanks, to name a few. When it comes to economics, the Greens have the cart before the horse. Before discussing business-friendly tax initiatives, these undercover Luddites must first stop impairing business and let the tax base flourish. They must stop starving the cow before they tell us what to do with the milk.

For the past five years some of Wall Street's top small-cap pundits doggedly predicted that small stocks would outperform large stocks. It finally happened last year. With a sudden burst in December, the Russell 2000 index--the most widely used gauge of small-stock performance--slipped past the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. This year the Russell is on a tear again. It's up 14.5% through Feb. 29, vs. a 7% decline in the S&P 500. Some investors are saying that small-cap stocks are finally ending their painful slump. "The market is realizing large-cap valuations are extremely high, and a natural broadening out is occurring," says Joseph Gatz, manager of Loomis Sayles Small Cap Value Fund.

It finally happened. Japan has faced its first hostile foreign takeover in some two decades. Germany's Boehringer Ingelheim Group spent just $223 million to buy a controlling stake in SS Pharmaceutical Co., Japan's No. 4 maker of over-the-counter medicines and a one-time comet on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. That deal, in mid-February, came after an international consortium led by New York's Ripplewood Holdings bought Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan Ltd.--at auction no less--for a piddling $1.1 billion. Once a centerpiece of Japan's postwar recovery, LTCB's last starring role was in the nation's banking crisis. In all, foreigners acquired nearly $16 billion of Japanese corporate assets last year. That's more than double the 1998 total, according to KPMG Corporate Finance. But it is still the lowest among industrialized nations. Nonetheless, the dealmaking in Japan "is happening faster than before," says Nicholas E. Benes, president of Japan Transaction Partners Inc., a Tokyo M&A boutique. "For savvy foreign companies that know M&A well, there are growing opportunities." Not surprisingly, merchant banks in Tokyo are bulking up their M&A units. At Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Japan, for example, President Thierry Porte has expanded his M&A staff by more than a third in the past 18 months.

You would think Network Solutions Inc. would be running scared these days. Last November, it lost its government-sanctioned monopoly over a building block of the New Economy: the registration of Internet addresses ending in .com, .net, and .org. Now, some 30 companies compete for the business of doling out Web addresses to retail customers--and nearly 120 others are ready to jump in. In spite of the competition, Network Solutions' shares are trading at about $315, up from a 52-week low of $49 last June. What gives? Sure, rivals took 15% of new registrations last year. And there's even a threat of a price war that could squeeze Network Solutions' profits. But experts say there will be plenty of business to go around as everyone from the local taxidermist to multinational corporations clamors for a Web address to hang out as an e-commerce shingle. Indeed, investment bank Chase H&Q estimates that registrations in .com, .net, and .org will explode, to more than 6 million this year from 100,000 in 1995--and should top 18 million by 2002. Even if Network Solutions loses a big share of the total market, it still stands to gain. "It's not a zero-sum game," says Chase H&Q analyst James Pettit. "This is a big market that will support many successful players."

He is known as Asia's star reformer and is credited by Westerners with bringing South Korea back from the brink. But now, President Kim Dae Jung is facing a no-holds-barred political battle at home that will largely determine how much he'll be able to accomplish in his remaining three years in office. On Apr. 13, Korean voters will elect a new 273-member National Assembly. The election is essentially a referendum on Kim's reforms, which face stiff opposition from the chaebol, unions, and conservative technocrats in his own government. So no one expects Kim's Millennium Democratic Party to win an outright majority. And while Korean voters are notoriously unpredictable, early surveys indicate Kim's followers may win as few as 110 seats--which would force him to scramble to form a coalition government.

Thomas Mengel, manager of Waddell & Reed International Growth Fund, has been in all the right places lately. He loaded up on Japanese and European telecom and technology stocks, enabling the fund to return 88.7% in 1999, nearly double the 45.4% scored by the average international equity fund. Its 48.2% average annual total return over the past three years beat its peers by better than 2 to 1. Mengel, 42, hasn't had a money-losing year since he took over the fund in 1996. A native of Germany, he holds a degree in business, finance, and economics from the University of Berlin and was president of Sal. Oppenheim Jr. Securities, an equity research boutique in New York. He spoke recently with Standard & Poor's FundAdvisor Associate Editor Jane Sandiford. A longer version of the interview is at www.personalwealth.com.
 
Q:
 What's your investment process?

"It's not enough to succeed," said Talleyrand, the supremely cynical statesman of 18th century France. "Others must fail." Maybe that sentiment explains why a flourishing France revels in America-bashing these days. It goes far beyond the old complaints about fast food and Hollywood films. In late February, French newspapers splashed the spurious news that U.S. intelligence agencies were spying on French industries. That followed reports--originating in the Defense Ministry--that Microsoft Corp. could not be trusted because of links to the U.S. defense establishment. In a nation long famous for clear thinking, it's hard to see the logic this time. The current wave of anti-Americanism arrives just as France is learning how to compete, American-style, in the global economy. The country is awash in venture capital. Billboards across the country display dot-com come-ons. And after years of sluggishness, the economy is roaring. So it's also hard to resist the simple conclusion that France needs more of what provokes its latter-day enrages into paroxysms of Yank-bashing--fierce, global competition, deregulation, and open markets.

"Radicalization comes at the end of a billy club" -- Old saw All right, so the stern-faced guards weren't exactly toting clubs. But they and the even more imposing middle-aged matrons barring the way to the meeting rooms at the posh Ritz-Carlton definitely made me want to toss a brick at some plate glass. Steely-eyed, they stood between me and top honchos from the likes of General Mills, Kellogg, and Campbell Soup. The managers were huddling in private with some 350 analysts and big-shot investors in late February at the yearly Consumer Analysts Group of New York (CAGNY) meeting, in Naples, Fla. As the guards edged closer, one indignant clerk hissed: "You're with the press? You can't be in here."

When aircraft suppliers set up their displays at the 1998 Singapore air show, during the height of the Asia crisis, the atmosphere was doom and gloom. Asian carriers were too busy trying to stay aloft to think about upgrades or expansion. But this year at the six-day Asian Aerospace 2000, airline executives arrived with checkbooks open and pens poised. Hong Kong Dragon Airlines inked its biggest single order ever, for 10 planes from Airbus Industrie. Singapore Airlines Ltd. and Malaysian Airline System (MAS) expressed interest in buying more than 100 new planes between them. "The mood is definitely more upbeat," says beaming Airbus Senior Vice-President John J. Leahy. "I've had more discussions in one day than I did at the entire show two years ago." With regional traffic growing in double digits and Asian economies clearly on the mend, the outlook for many airlines has improved dramatically. But that isn't the case for everyone. As some airlines emerge leaner and stronger from the industry's worst downturn in two decades, others are still struggling for altitude (table). And as the recovery continues, the gap between the highfliers and the laggards is set to grow. Faltering national flag carriers have been forced to cut routes, giving up market share to regional heavyweights like Cathay Pacific Airways and Singapore Airlines. These strong carriers are now set to capitalize on their competitive edge, thanks to new aircraft and additional revenues generated by alliances with other carriers.

In the early 1950s, Henry Luce was famously hesitant to start Sports Illustrated because spectator sports were considered a low-brow diversion for the masses. Oh, if Henry could see the sports world now. No doubt he would be shocked by the multibillion-dollar TV contracts, the millionaire players, and the gleaming, publicly financed stadiums. But perhaps nothing would amaze him more than the white-collar crowd in the stands. Live sporting events have increasingly become spectacles for the corporate luxury class. According to Team Marketing Report Inc.'s Fan Cost Index, it costs $266.61 for a family of four to go to an NBA game. That number represents a 108% increase in ticket prices over the 1991-92 season. The bill for an NFL game, at $258.50, isn't much of a bargain, either. Football's 1999 ticket prices represent an 81% hike over 1991. (The Fan Cost Index is based on the tab for two average child-price tickets, two average adult-priced tickets, four soft drinks, four hot dogs, parking, two game programs, and two souvenir caps.)

Heide Wagener used to invest in the same way as most other middle-class Germans, by putting money in bond funds sold over the counter at her local bank. But in January, the 50-year-old hotel owner decided to try something different. Her financial adviser suggested buying shares in a Luxembourg-based equity mutual fund run by Alliance Capital Management Holding of New York. "I had never thought of saving through an American institution," she says. "But my adviser thought it was time I moved some money out of bonds into equities. And he was impressed by Alliance's track record, solid reputation, and transparent fee structure." These days, such switches are becoming common. Hungry for the fatter returns and lower charges of U.S. mutual funds, millions of European investors are doing the same. American funds have pulled in more than $120 billion from the 15 European Union countries during the past four years. That's almost 8% of the $1.5 trillion European mutual-fund market. Five years ago, American funds couldn't claim 3%. In many ways, Europe looks much like the U.S. of the early 1990s--a savings market with huge potential, primed to take off. Mutual funds account for just 10% of investments in Europe, compared with 23% in the U.S.

You'd think these would be glory days for oil stocks. The price of crude has nearly tripled since December, 1998, hitting a nine-year high of  nearly $32 a barrel on Mar. 1. Meanwhile, U.S. inventories of both crude oil and gasoline are near historic lows for this time of year, meaning prices at the pump should surge even higher heading into the summer driving season. So how come oil stocks are "just sucking wind," in the words of PaineWebber Inc. analyst Christopher G. Stavros? And that's after taking into account the boost most energy stocks got in late February as crude prices soared. Overall, shares in energy companies have underperformed the Standard & Poor's Industrials by 6.2% so far this year. And oil giants such as Exxon Mobil Corp. and Texaco Inc. have seen even sharper declines, falling 11.3% and 17.6%, respectively.

Four years ago, when Taiwan was holding its first democratic presidential election, China took aim. It lobbed missiles over the island, which it considers to be a renegade province, to warn the electorate not to vote for candidates who favored independence. This year, Beijing opted for paper missiles. With Taiwan voters going to the polls on Mar. 18, China has issued a "white paper" that lets Taipei know in no uncertain terms that it must start negotiating on reunification or China will use force. The message is clear, and if relations are mishandled, China and Taiwan could be headed toward a collision--dragging the U.S. along. Managing relations with China is never easy. This year, it's more complicated than ever, with elections both in the U.S. and Taiwan. Consider the players: There's a discredited, lame-duck President in Washington with a China policy that often lacks consistency and coherence. In Taiwan, pro-independence candidate Chen Shui-bian could be elected, posing a direct challenge to China's claim of autonomy over the island. There are Beijing's Communist leaders, who will not let Taiwan slip away, even if it means war. Add in a U.S. Congress--and Presidential hopefuls--who score points by standing up to Asia's 800-pound gorilla in defense of Taiwan.

In all the hubbub over Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan's remarks about productivity, stock prices, and the wealth effect, a crucial point in the outlook for the economy and interest rates is getting lost. The fact is, the New Economy requires higher interest rates. It's not simply that economic growth, now refigured at a stunning 6.9% annual rate in the fourth quarter, is too fast. Or that the strong showings of consumer spending, confidence, and factory orders so far this quarter are raising the risk that robust demand will push inflation higher. The story goes deeper than that.

Several months ago I went to Bogota to speak on economic issues. I had nice discussions about the ongoing recession, fiscal imbalances, and the independent central bank's approach to reducing inflation and allowing the exchange rate to float. Yet it was clear then that standard economic issues are sideshows in Colombia. The country's future is wrapped up in issues of guerrilla warfare, drug trafficking, the political will to fight terrorism, and the efficiency of the military. It is remarkable that the democratically elected president, Andres Pastrana, effectively turned over the southern part of his country to a guerrilla group, the FARC, to run the region as it pleases, mostly for the coca business. Pastrana would like to make peace with the guerrillas, but the FARC has little reason to negotiate with a weak, compliant government.

"Call him the Streetfighter.com," (Up Front, Mar. 6) says James Cramer "was accused of bashing a stock he had shorted" in 1998. It should have said Cramer was accused of shorting a stock he had bashed. The accusation turned out to be false.

By John B. Judis Pantheon  305pp  $26



Jerome Cottray, 21, grew up near Auvers Sur Oise, steeped in the work of the Impressionists. So it's no surprise that he sits hunched over a tilted drawing board at the Gobelins Ecole de l'Image in Paris, pencil poised over a piece of paper a few inches from his nose. But what's this he's drawing? Looks like a smirky, goofy kid who'll soon be doing backward flips on a screen. No threat to the French masters, Cottray dreams of becoming a great artist--a la Walt Disney. His chances are good. French cartoonists are being snapped up by American animation studios. "There is a war for talent," says Eric Riewer, director of the Gobelins school's animation department. Walt Disney Feature Animation France, located in a Paris suburb, has about 70 French animation artists.  DreamWorks SKG in Los Angeles employs 40, including 25 graduates of the Gobelins school. They earn about $150,000 a year, twice the French pay, and they have a chance to work on major films such as The Road to El Dorado, due out in March. In fact, so many French cartoonists are hired by American studios that French studios, which produce mostly short television and advertising animation films, hire artists from Asia and Eastern Europe.



















Jerome Cottray, 21, grew up near Auvers Sur Oise, steeped in the work of the Impressionists. So it's no surprise that he sits hunched over a tilted drawing board at the Gobelins Ecole de l'Image in Paris, pencil poised over a piece of paper a few inches from his nose. But what's this he's drawing? Looks like a smirky, goofy kid who'll soon be doing backward flips on a screen. No threat to the French masters, Cottray dreams of becoming a great artist--a la Walt Disney. His chances are good. French cartoonists are being snapped up by American animation studios. "There is a war for talent," says Eric Riewer, director of the Gobelins school's animation department. Walt Disney Feature Animation France, located in a Paris suburb, has about 70 French animation artists.  DreamWorks SKG in Los Angeles employs 40, including 25 graduates of the Gobelins school. They earn about $150,000 a year, twice the French pay, and they have a chance to work on major films such as The Road to El Dorado, due out in March. In fact, so many French cartoonists are hired by American studios that French studios, which produce mostly short television and advertising animation films, hire artists from Asia and Eastern Europe.

-- Saul Steinberg resigned as chief executive of Reliance Group Holdings. -- The Wal-Mart Web site named Banana Republic CEO Jeanne Jackson its new chief.

It's about time Lucent Technologies gave Wall Street some good news. Since warning on Jan. 7 that fiscal first-quarter profits would nosedive, its stock has taken a beating. But on Mar. 1, Lucent regained favor by announcing it will spin off units that sell corporate phone systems and wire office networks. Investors drove Lucent shares up more than 15%, to close at 68 5/8. Why? Now it can focus on such booming new markets as optical networking, where rivals such as Nortel Networks lead.

Austria's sharp-tongued populist, Jorg Haider, resigned as head of the Freedom Party on Feb. 28 in an apparent effort to quell international concern about the rise of his far-right party. Few expect Haider, who will remain governor in the southern province of Carinthia, to give up his dream of becoming Chancellor. Haider, 50, said he would stay active in the party in a "supervisory" capacity and picked loyal lieutenant Susanne Riess-Passer to replace him as party chief. Riess-Passer, 39, earned the nickname "king cobra" within the party for the ruthless zeal she displayed in carrying out Haider's orders. Just last month, Haider made her Vice-Chancellor in Austria's much-criticized coalition government.

An item on Southdown in "Inside Wall Street" (Feb. 21) used an incorrect chart in the magazine. The numbers in the text were correct.

-- Do you want total immersion in a single subject or a choice among many subjects? -- Do you want to take classes with undergrads or with other high schoolers?

Plenty of people have bashed Microsoft, but none as publicly or joyously as Sun Microsystems CEO Scott McNealy. Once, he referred to Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer and Bill Gates as "Ballmer and Butthead." And after last fall's antitrust finding against Microsoft, he played a recording of Breaking Up Is Hard to Do before addressing a trade show. Well, McNealy says he is ready to cut back his public speaking to concentrate on working with key partners in building Internet infrastructure projects. That also means less public Microsoft-bashing. Sun was once considered a high-tech misfit for resisting Microsoft's PC-centric view of the world. But thanks to McNealy's perseverance, Sun's focus on networked computers is now mainstream.

Some 100 companies are expected to compete with Network Solutions to register Web site addresses. Here are some of the early entrants:
 A distant second to Network Solutions, it targets small businesses with services such as Web hosting and free Web-page design.

The Memory of Fire (Bantam Books, $13.95), a novel about politics and love set in the near future by Business Week copy editor George Foy, has just been published.

With the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party politically stable, local and foreign investors had expected India's budget for the fiscal year starting Apr. 1 to feature pruned expenditures and more reform. Instead, the $77.6 billion budget unveiled by Finance Minister Yashwant Sinha on Feb. 29  offered a return to socialism. Taxes on income and dividends will rise with no noticeable reduction in government spending and subsidies. In a major shift, defense spending was increased by almost 30%, to $13.6 billion for the year. The sharp boost was spurred by India's military conflict with Pakistan last May over Kashmir. Investors reacted  by pummeling India's stock market, which fell 5.1% on the day the budget was announced.

1949, Philadelphia, Pa. B.S., political science, St. Joseph's College, Philadelphia, 1971

Toy companies, Internet portals, and entertainment outfits are all scrambling for a piece of the fast-growing online game business. Here's how some are trying to make money:
 The Lycos Zone game site pulls in cash from banner ads for such companies as toy chain Zainy Brainy.

Information on early-decision programs and a state-by-state list of colleges offering them Rundown on early decision, plus an abundance of college-planning resources

Hong Kong Internet investment firm with little operating sales or profits. Until its HKT bid, the stock rose more than twentyfold since September. Market cap: $25.9 billion

The optical networking revolution continues its  march. The latest advance in photon-based technology  comes from startup Xros Inc. in Sunnyvale, Calif. On Mar. 6, it will unveil an all-optical device known as a cross-connect switch, which is essentially a network box that switches communications circuits between two different destinations. On today's fiber-optic networks, pulses of light are widely used to carry voice and data across long distances. But when these optical pulses must be transferred, or "switched," from one hub of the network to another, the pulses must first be converted to electrical signals and then turned back into light pulses. Xros eliminates this step by using thousands of densely packed micromirrors to bounce light beams through the switch.

Has emerged leaner and stronger after cost cuts and is set to report solid profits for 1999 Is expanding after a recent aviation agreement between Hong Kong and China that lifts a ceiling on flights

Welfare reform, some argue, will improve the well-being of children. Young children from welfare households, they note, tend to suffer from deficiencies in cognitive development, do poorly in school, and exhibit behavioral  problems. So if being on welfare somehow reinforces negative parental traits that affect kids, then getting moms off the dole should pay off for their offspring. In an intriguing new study, Phillip B. Levine of Wellesley College and David J. Zimmerman of Williams College assess the premise behind such reasoning: that it is the mothers' receipt of welfare (rather than other maternal characteristics correlated with welfare dependency) that harms kids. Applying statistical techniques to data that track a nationwide sample of  families from 1979 to 1996, the researchers find little evidence that the length of time children were exposed to welfare affected their subsequent development.

Here's a business where a bird in the hand really can be worth more than two in the bush. Since November, farmer Rudy Hendrikx has run what he claims is the world's first pigeon sperm bank, in the village of Maasmechelen, Belgium. Hendrikx already has stocked sperm from 30 prize-winning pigeons at his Duivensperma Centrum. "People really are excited about the chance to breed the fastest pigeons," says Hendrikx. Belgians love pigeon races. The birds are taken, in some events, almost 400 miles from home and released. They return at speeds approaching 75 mph, and the winner can receive up to $100,000. Champion pigeons have sold for as much as $25,000.

Still the heart of Intel's business, processors and companion chips for PCs and servers contributed 90% of revenues and 100% of profits in 1999. Analysts figure Intel's microprocessor business will account for less than 80% of total revenues in a couple of years. THE BOSS: Paul Otellini, 49, essentially No. 3 in the company, runs Intel's worldwide processor group. He's seen as a possible successor to Barrett.

Intel is "deadly serious" about being a player in the fast-growing networking industry, says CEO Barrett. In the past, networking was a sideline to sell more PCs. Now, Barrett is pouring billions into acquisitions, hiring, and marketing.
 THE BOSS: Mark Christensen, 40, is a rising star at Intel. With the company 18 years, he helped drive networking sales from zero to about $1 billion in the 1990s. Now he leads a 2,500-person group and reports directly to Barrett.

Check out a sears store and you can see shoppers happy with the goods they're lugging around. You'll also see shoppers unhappy because--well, they're lugging goods around. So Sears plans to ease their burden--with shopping carts. The move violates conventional retailing wisdom, which holds that shopping carts belong in supermarkets and discount stores, not mall anchor tenants. But the beleagured retailer thinks it can maintain its mid-market image by using carts that resemble oversized baby strollers. Sears says its prices are already competitive with the discounters. Now shoppers can also have the convenience of a Target or Wal-Mart--the downmarket crowd--without actually having to shop there.

"Teaching girls the ways of money" (BusinessWeek Investor, Feb. 14) mentioned a Girls Inc. economic-literacy program for girls. The program is in the planning stages. It will be running at test sites in 10 locations this fall and at all sites by the fall of 2001.

SFX Entertainment is going back to its roots. On Feb. 29, two years after shedding its radio operations to focus on the concert business, sports management, and sporting events, the nation's biggest promoter of live events agreed to be acquired by Clear Channel Communications for about $3.3 billion in stock, including the assumption of $1.1 billion in debt. The deal will make San Antonio-based Clear Channel a major force in music and sports business. It's in the process of completing a $23.5 billion acquisition of AMFM Inc., a move that will make it the world's largest radio station owner. The merger will help Clear Channel extend its advertising reach.

The medical community certainly shares the enthusiasm for advanced noninvasive imaging, as highlighted in "Live and in 3-D, your body at work" (BusinessWeek Lifestyle, Feb. 21). But there have been tremendous advances in coronary imaging in the past 20 years. The catheters are one-third smaller, thus minimizing discomfort, and most diagnostic procedures are completed in approximately 20 minutes--not the three hours reported in your article. Finally, the femoral-artery entry site in the groin is now sealed with a closure device or plug, thus allowing the patient to be discharged and sent home one hour after completion of the procedure. Coronary arteriography and interventions (angioplasty) play a vital role in the management of patients with heart disease. Providing the correct details of these procedures will allow patients to make appropriate informed decisions.

Just four days after being named Aetna's CEO in a management shakeup, William Donaldson found himself under heightened pressure when news leaked on Mar. 1 of an unsolicited offer from Dutch banking giant ING Group and WellPoint Health Networks. The two want to break up Aetna's large health-care and financial-services businesses and divide the spoils. ING and WellPoint earlier proposed a $70-per-share offer, which the company turned down. Aetna issued a statement saying that it would review the companies' proposal "in due course" as Donaldson moved ahead with plans for a strategic review. But unhappy investors are hankering for a deal: Aetna's stock soared 29% to 53 1/16 before trading was halted.

Last August, Belgian entrepreneur Lieven Van Neste started a business speculating on promising e-commerce Web addresses. He first snapped up 1,600 names, most fashioned around the phrase "24 hours," such as 24hourAcupuncture.com and 24hourEverything.com, paying Network Solutions Inc. $70 per name for two-year registrations. But when he heard that Baltimore-based Bulkregister.com would do the same thing for a $10 annual fee, he jumped ship, registering his next 16,000-plus names with the cut-rate competitor. "A client with 10,000 names is nothing to Network Solutions," he says. "But to Bulkregister, it means a lot." Since competition officially started in the .com, .net, and .org registration business last November, new competitors have seized about 15% of new registrations from onetime monopolist Network Solutions. Many have promising business models--everything from deep-volume discounts to free domain names. "They're finding places we didn't know existed," concedes Robert J. Korzeniewski, chief financial officer of Network Solutions.

Recent talk in the tech industry--and the car business--had it that Microsoft and Ford would take their jointly owned online car-shopping service, msn.CarPoint, public. But neither company was ready to admit it. Until now, that is. Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer may have inadvertently let the cat out of the bag during a recent speech in San Francisco. After the standard speech praising all things Microsoft, a questioner asked Ballmer about the company's plans for such noncore businesses as CarPoint. To which Ballmer replied, "We have sold part of our automotive buying site to Ford and announced plans to take it public." One small problem: Microsoft has never announced plans to take CarPoint public. Ford says it hasn't either. So did Ballmer spill the proverbial beans? Microsoft wouldn't say.

As Gary Weiss's commentary ("Sorry, The Sopranos is off-key," Finance, Feb. 7), points out, The Sopranos, while entertaining, is far from reality. The real mob stands for greed, violence, and self-preservation. As an FBI agent in Chicago, I once saw a mob boss put out a "contract"on his wife when he learned she was to testify against him in a murder case. When told that his 12-year-old son might be with her, his reply was: "Do what you gotta do." Fortunately, the testimony took place, and he remains in jail. That is the reality of the mob.

Mae Towada, 31, isn't your typical Japanese woman. After graduating from a top university in 1990, she passed up a dead-end job at a Japanese company and joined the Tokyo office of Boston Consulting Group. Later, she earned an MBA in the U.S. and worked in Hong Kong, before returning to Tokyo to hatch her own Internet business last year. The result is eSampo Ltd., a bustling Web site offering information to working women and housewives. Only a handful of Japanese women are running Net startups. But they're starting to hog the limelight. Japanese magazines have jumped on the story of Towada and that of Tomoko Namba, a former McKinsey & Co. consultant who has created a popular auction site called Bidders. And everyone seems to know about Merle Okawara, recently named CEO of eBay Japan. "Women never had a level playing field in Japanese business," she says. "The Internet will change all that."

Louise Lee's article about Nike Inc., "Can Nike still do it?" (The Corporation, Feb. 21), caught my attention in the first paragraph. Opening an article about Nike's move from adolescence into adulthood by talking about the company's social responsibility seemed appropriate. Since 1993, when I made my first visit to a Nike contract factory, I have visited more than 25 factories making Nike and other products throughout developing countries in Asia. I, too, have witnessed Nike's evolving maturity, particularly in the area of manufacturing practices. Don't get me wrong. The factories were not terrible in 1993, especially compared with some other factories I had seen. But in the past two years, when I visited two Nike contract factories, the improvements I noticed were dramatic--not only in the factories but also in the communities where they are located. It seems that as it grew up in the 1990s, Nike's sense of community grew up as well, to include the places where its products are made. Let's hope they keep it up, and that other companies that are going through growing pains follow their example.

One of the neat things about being a technology company is that if you're one of the first to market, and you bet on the right technology, you can build yourself a near monopoly for a couple of decades. The downside is, the next technological advance can knock you off your pinnacle like ocean waves wiping surfers off their boards. If you're agile, there's always the hope of repositioning yourself to catch the next wave, as IBM switched from mainframe manufacturing to information services after the personal computer arrived. The transition is generally painful, however. It looks as though Intel Corp., which reaped the benefits of the PC era partly at the expense of IBM, will have to perform such a feat of derring-do. For nearly 20 years it has barged along as a quasi-monopoly, manufacturing the chips that underpinned the PC revolution. But Intel's microprocessor hegemony may have only a year or two of momentum left. The giant is trying to figure out how to catch the next wave in technology without falling off its board.

By Molly Ivins and Lou Dubose Random House  179pp  $19.95

At The American Heart Assn.'s March conference on cardiovascular disease, researchers from Cooper Institute in Dallas will announce that a new imaging technology called electron-beam computed tomography can accurately predict which patients are most at risk for heart disease. There could be a small hitch, though: There is a shortage of radiologists to interpret the images. To the rescue comes Dr. Robert J. Schier Jr., a consulting radiologist in Southern California. He has developed a computer-aided diagnostic program that excels at interpreting medical images. In tests on mammograms, the system spotted the key signs of breast cancer with 93% accuracy--better than most doctors do with these hard-to-read images.

By Andrei Shleifer and Daniel Treisman MIT Press  223pp  $25.95

"Will the Blair Witch sequel be an IPO?" (Entertainment, Feb. 21) incorrectly said that Artisan Entertainment's rights to the Republic Pictures' film library expire in 2003. The rights expire in 2005, and Artisan has the opportunity to renegotiate an extension to mid-2006.

Glaxo SmithKline's genomics guru
 1952, Cambridge, England

Thank you for your article "Yesterday's tires, today's railroad ties" (Developments to Watch, Feb. 14), pointing out the economic and environmental advantages of replacing chemically treated railroad ties with those made of recycled material. You have identified a solution to a problem that deserves greater public, industry, and government attention in other sectors, such as the utility industry, which collectively manages more than 130 million utility poles. The vast majority of utility poles, like railroad ties, are chemically treated and retreated with the same hazardous wood preservatives that fill our nation's toxic-waste Superfund sites. Wood preservatives are some of the most toxic chemicals known to humankind. Jay Feldman

It is unfortunate that Lewis Pinault has been affiliated mainly with consultants whom he sees as unethical, self-serving, and not deserving of trust. While from the book it is apparent that Pinault functioned mostly in a highly self-serving way, the majority of consultants perform a valuable service: They provide expertise the client does not have or an independent perspective the client badly needs. And most of them do this ethically, with the client's best interest in mind. This may sound simplistic, but it is the result of my years of experience both as a buyer and as a supplier of consulting services. Peter R. Lantos

Out-of-town investors routinely have their pockets picked in Hollywood. Just ask doctors and lawyers who've invested in films, or Coca-Cola Co. and Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., which fled Hollywood after owning major studios. Against these odds, a special Oscar might be due the venture capitalists from Boston and Chicago who are prospering -- for now -- with tiny Artisan Entertainment Inc.

-- Can quickly reduce inflation and interest rates, promoting economic stability -- Ends risk of devaluation, boosting foreign investor confidence

For a time, it seemed that Florida billionaire H. Wayne Huizenga had the Midas touch. Through the 1990s, he built Waste Management and Blockbuster Entertainment into huge enterprises, revolutionizing those industries and making billions for himself and many investors along the way. Then AutoNation happened. Huizenga launched the business in 1995 with the intention of wresting the auto-retail business from pushy independent car dealers and selling vehicles with fixed prices at his AutoNation used-car megastores and new-car dealerships. But no-haggle, one-price selling hasn't paid off, and the megastores, now shuttered, lost money. Huizenga has brought in new leadership several times and the stock has fallen from a high of $45 a share to its current price of $8. Huizenga owns, through various partnerships, 24.8 million shares of AutoNation, a stake now worth about $190 million, and has options for 6.5 million more.





It's AT&T's biggest division, with $29 billion in revenues last year. But the management exodus has kept this business from performing up to potential. Rising star Richard Roscitt now leads the division, following on the heels of Gail McGovern, Jeffrey Weitzen, and Michael Keith. His task is to fend off MCI WorldCom by offering advanced Internet services, such as corporate network management. Robert Aquilina and Howard McNally took over in February after the sudden departure of Eugene Lockhart. The two are in a tough spot because prices are plunging in the hypercompetitive long-distance telephone market. AT&T is using this operation's $9 billion in annual cash flow to fund high-growth ventures elsewhere in the company.









































After a calm during the storm, the Republican National Convention is gearing up again. President Bush — originally scheduled to speak Monday night — will address the GOP throngs by satellite, while Laura Bush, Democrat-turned-independent Sen. Joe Lieberman and erstwhile presidential candidate Fred Thompson will speak as well. Word is that Rudy Giuliani, originally on tap for tonight, will likely speak later in the week. The convention didn’t address the whereabouts of Dick Cheney, whose Monday speech was also canceled because of Gustav. This all after some had begun to wonder if Bush and Cheney’s absence from the convention might not help McCain with moderates.

It looks like General Motors is stuck on the discount treadmill. Bloomberg reported today that GM will extend its employee pricing program for all consumers for another month. The offer was set to expire on Sept. 2. With sales in the tank, all carmakers need to goose sales somehow. But going long with come-ons like rebates, employee pricing and 0% financing is a slippery slope. It’s easy for a carmaker to rely on discounts and tough to get off them. GM complains about $1,600 a car in retiree benefits costs. But giving away more than $3,000 a vehicle in incentives is a bigger hit to the bottom line. It can get pricey for GM. According to the company’s website, employee pricing cuts a little more than $2,100 off the sticker of a well-equipped Chevrolet Malibu LTZ for a sale price of $25,600. But then you can add in a $1,000 rebate for the Malibu and the discount climbs above $3,000. Discounts are bigger for more expensive models. A top-of-the-line, $48,000 Chevy Tahoe 4x4 sells with a $5,000 discount. Add in the $2,000 rebate and the truck sells for $41,000.

I wrote an item last week about the still-hot real estate market in Houston, particularly at the high end. For a more gossipy look at real estate in America’s fourth largest city check out swamplot.com. The site, run by “founder and chief promoter” Gus Allen, has been following the trials and tribulations of Royce Builders, a national homebuilder that seems to be in a bit of financial trouble lately. Swamplot’s tipsters tell of wild parties, lavish spending by the founding Speer family, and even a barking toilet seat brought out at company sales meetings. Employees were apparently encouraged to rub the seat for good luck and chant Royce! No wonder the company appears to be in the toilet.

Apple has just sent out email invitations for a media event next Tuesday, Sept. 9, at the Yerba Buena Center for the Art in San Francisco. And since September is the traditional month for iPod announcements, and because the invitation is headlined “Let’s Rock,” it seems a safe bet that new iPods are in the offing. A revamping of the entire line, including a new iPod Touch, seems likely. Apple, however, scheduled the event with typical lack of consideration for those of us who are expected to attend. We’re already torn between two conferences, DEMOFall and TechCrunch 50. The TechCrunch folks have it easier since the conference is in another part of San Francisco, while DEMO is several hundred miles south in San Diego.

Alt-A mortgages were designed for people with good credit who had trouble documenting their income — people like the self-employed. Not as risky as subprime but not quite prime either, Alt-As made some news recently because they’re part of what’s ailing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. About half of their combined $3.1 billion loss in the second quarter came from bad Alt-A loans. Part of the problem is that many of these loans, like their riskier subprime cousins, went to people who never should have gotten them. Not self-employed, maybe not employed at all. That’s why some call them liar loans: no documentation of income or assets.

A new GfK Roper Consulting survey reveals the top 14 leadership traits according to consumers: They are: Accountable…85%; Knowledgeable…82%; Honest…………….81%; Effective…………..78%;     Integrity…………..78%; Good listener……..76%; Flexible……………72%;  People person…… 69%; Visionary…………68%; Inspiring…………62%;   Intelligent………..59%; Creative…………..57%; Experienced……..55%;    Strong…………….49% Where it gets interesting is how important different generations rated different qualities.

The RNC’s digital team spent months developing a Web site to spread speeches from the Convention and silence critics who say Republicans don’t get tech. They launched it on Saturday. Within 24 hours, they had to dismantle it. Hurricane Gustav’s potential to wreak havoc on the recovering Gulf Coast had shifted the RNC’s focus away from partisan promotions to the two million people forced to flee their homes. On Sunday, the 15 member digital team decided that the Web site had to reflect the new message. “Hurricane Gustav changed every plan that we had,” says Joanna Burgos, the RNC’s press secretary.

Phil Gramm, the former Senator and top economic advisor to Senator John McCain who stepped down from the campaign in July after saying Americans worried about the economy were “whiners” resurfaced today — though probably not in a way the campaign would have liked. While speaking to a Financial Services Roundtable event in Minneapolis today, according to Bloomberg, Gramm said: “If you’re sitting here today, you’re not economically illiterate and you’re not a whiner, so I’m not worried about who you’re going to vote for.”

Google’s about to brief a gazillion of us reporters about its much-discussed Chrome Web browser, now ready for download here. I wrote my initial thoughts yesterday, and you can get the basics with a nifty comic book that explains Chrome with only a few forays into serious geek. While we listen to Led Zeppelin’s “Whole Lotta Love,” the Rolling Stones’ “Can’t You Hear Me Knocking,” and other classics and trying to divine their significance, we await the demo which I will try to liveblog…. Among others, Google’s own Matt Cutts is also liveblogging, better than I can. Update: Liveblogging didn’t work, but now that I’m on a network that works with our software, here’s my hurried account: OK, Sundar Pichai, Google's VP of product management, is explaining why Google's bothering to do its own browser. Basically, the Web has really changed a lot from a place to browse pages, literally, to a place where you do some pretty sophisticated applications. You just need a new browser to do this better, as we all know from the limitations in speed and reliability of today's browsers.

France's CAC 40 Index slid 26.6, or 0.6 percent, to 4,456 at 9:18 a.m. in Paris, its first decline in a week. The SBF 120 Index retreated 0.7 percent.

Ford appointed Stephen Odell, one of Ford Motor’s top executives in Europe, to run its Swedish Volvo unit, replacing Fredrik Arp.
      Arp, who came to Volvo three years ago from his job as CEO of Swedish auto parts supplier Trelleborg, was at the end of his three-year contract, and was known to be disenchanted with the job, especially after Ford shopped Volvo around last year. Ford is believed to be ready to hold on to Volvo with no viable buyers at the counter. In many ways, it’s a natural for O’Dell to take the post. Since Ford has all but dissolved the Premier Auto Group, which had included Jaguar, Land Rover and Aston Martin, as well as Volvo, Ford Europe chief Lewis Booth’s job has become more focused on Ford brand. And O’Dell, his number-two, had a limited portfolio of responsibility.

What does innovation mean in your team? For teams involved in research and development or quality improvement, the answer may be obvious. But it isn’t obvious for teams that do the same work, week in and week out, month in and month out.
       
      What I have found is that everyone has thoughts about how things could be better—they see things that could be changed, fixed, or improved that would make work easier, would make more sense, or achieve better results. Most people just don’t call this innovation.
       
      As a leader you can tap into your team’s creativity and resourcefulness to make sure their ideas don’t go to waste. But first you need to believe they do have ideas worthy of being heard, and then create the opportunity for them to speak up.
       
      What has worked best for me is to divide my team up into small groups of three or four people, and ask them this question:
       
      What have you noticed that if changed, fixed, or improved would increase our team’s performance?
       
      When you do this on a regular basis, at least every other month, team members start to pay more attention to what they are seeing, and take ownership for continually improving the team’s performance.
       
      Keith Ayers
      President
      Integro Leadership Institute
      West Chester, Penn.

Manchester City said it offered more than 30 million pounds ($54 million) for striker Dimitar Berbatov, hours after an Abu Dhabi investment company said it agreed to purchase the Premier League soccer team. Tottenham accepted the offer for the Bulgarian international, who has also been the subject of bids from City's rival Manchester United, Sky Sports reported.

Commerzbank AG dropped the most in almost six years in Frankfurt trading after agreeing to buy Allianz SE's Dresdner Bank for 9.8 billion euros ($14.4 billion) in the biggest financial-services takeover in Europe this year. Commerzbank fell 10 percent, the biggest drop since October 2002, after analysts said the offer price exceeded investors' estimates. Dresdner will be acquired in two steps, with Commerzbank purchasing 60.2 percent with cash and stock and then the remainder by the end of 2009, the companies said yesterday.

The S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 24.60 points, or 0.5 percent, to 5,111 at 10:25 a.m. in Sydney. The broader All Ordinaries Index lost 23.70 points, or 0.5 percent, to 5,191.80, while the futures index expiring in September dipped 0.7 percent to 5,106.

Google’s Chrome browser is now officially available here. I’m afraid I haven’t had a chance to try it, though I hope to a little later; meantime, here’s an early review from Walt Mossberg of the Journal, who has had a week to test it out. He says it’s still rough around the edges (which is exactly what I expected early reviews to say). Following is a video of a couple of questions I had a chance to ask Sergey Brin, Google’s cofounder and president of technology, after the demo at the Googleplex today. I had trouble with editing software, so there’s a piece of a question before my two questions, then a couple more from other reporters. (Technology ain’t working so well for me today….)

European stock-index futures fell, following declines in the U.S. and Asia, after higher oil and gasoline prices dimmed the earnings outlook for airlines. Air France-KLM Group may follow its U.S.-traded shares lower as Hurricane Gustav approached the U.S. Gulf coast, forcing the closure of refineries and evacuation of offshore rigs and pushing crude up as much as 2.2 percent. Continental AG may retreat after Merrill Lynch & Co. recommended selling shares of Europe's second-largest car-parts maker.

Colombia opened South America's derivatives market today as the region's exchanges seek to lure more investors and boost trading volume. Juan Pablo Cordoba, chairman of Colombia's exchange known as BVC, and chief securities regulator Cesar Prado started the first session of bond futures trading in a ceremony in Bogota. BVC plans to allow stock and currency futures and options by yearend.

South Korea's won weakened below 1,100 a dollar for the first time in almost four years and stocks slumped, prompting the finance ministry to say it will take steps to support the year's worst performing currency. Shares of Korean Air Lines Co. plunged by the daily limit of 15 percent on concern the won's decline will drive up dollar- denominated fuel bills. LG Electronics Inc., Asia's second-largest handset maker, tumbled 9.6 percent on speculation overseas shipments will fall after U.S. consumer spending slowed.

Manchester City said it offered more than 30 million pounds ($54 million) for striker Dimitar Berbatov, hours after an Abu Dhabi investment company said it agreed to purchase the Premier League soccer team. Tottenham accepted the offer for the Bulgarian international, who has also been the subject of bids from City's rival Manchester United, Sky Sports reported.

The following is a list of companies whose shares may have unusual price changes in South Africa. Stock symbols are in parentheses after company names and prices are from the last close. South Africa's FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index fell the most in a month, losing 844.97, or 3.1 percent, to 26,857.09 in Johannesburg.

Manchester City owner Thaksin Shinawatra agreed to sell the English Premier League soccer team to an Abu Dhabi investment company for an undisclosed amount. The Abu Dhabi United Group for Development and Investment will now look at the club's accounts and contracts before completing the takeover, City said on its Web site today. Sulaiman Al-Fahim, a board member of the United Arab Emirates- based company, declined to reveal the price.

Commerzbank AG agreed to buy Allianz SE's Dresdner Bank for 9.8 billion euros ($14.4 billion) in the biggest financial-services takeover in Europe this year, leapfrogging Deutsche Bank AG by customers and branches. Commerzbank fell as much as 9.7 percent in Frankfurt trading, the most since January, after analysts said the offer price exceeded investors' estimates. Dresdner will be acquired in two steps, with Commerzbank purchasing 60.2 percent with cash and stock and then buying the remainder by the end of 2009, the companies said yesterday.

Commerzbank AG dropped the most in almost six years in Frankfurt trading after agreeing to buy Allianz SE's Dresdner Bank for 9.8 billion euros ($14.4 billion) in the biggest financial-services takeover in Europe this year. Commerzbank fell 10 percent, the biggest drop since October 2002, after analysts said the offer price exceeded investors' estimates. Dresdner will be acquired in two steps, with Commerzbank purchasing 60.2 percent with cash and stock and then the remainder by the end of 2009, the companies said yesterday.

Republicans attending the GOP convention in St. Paul may catch the following ad running on their hotel room TVs while they are channel surfing for Fox News convention highlights. The ad went up Sunday evening on hotel-room networks where GOP delegates will be staying. According to the group, it’s spent about $40,000 so far.

Abu Dhabi United Group for Development and Investment, a United Arab Emirates-based investor, has bought English soccer team Manchester City from former Thai Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra. The investment will reinforce Abu Dhabi's position as a capital of both sport and economic activity, the Abu Dhabi-based company said in an e-mailed statement today. The company did not disclose the value of the deal.

Lebanon is ready to auction off its two state-owned mobile telephone companies after six years of delay to lower debt that equals almost twice annual economic output, Finance Minister Mohamad Chatah said. The sales of MTC Touch and Alfa, originally proposed in 2002, would represent the first auction of state assets since the end of the 1975-1990 civil war and were repeatedly put off because of bickering between the postwar ruling factions.

Manchester City's owner agreed to sell the English Premier League soccer team to an Abu Dhabi investment company for an undisclosed amount. The Abu Dhabi United Group for Development and Investment will now look at the club's accounts and contracts before completing the takeover, City said on its Web site today.

Mexico may report that workers' transfers of funds home from the U.S. declined for the sixth time in seven months as the world's biggest economy slows, boosting expectations that Mexican consumer spending will drop. Worker remittances from the U.S. fell 2.2 percent in the first half of the year to $11.6 billion, Mexico's central bank said last month. The central bank has said remittances may decline as much as 3 percent this year.

Manchester City owner Thaksin Shinawatra agreed to sell the English Premier League soccer team to an Abu Dhabi investment company for an undisclosed amount. The Abu Dhabi United Group for Development and Investment will now look at the club's accounts and contracts before completing the takeover, City said on its Web site today. Sulaiman Al-Fahim, a board member of the United Arab Emirates- based company, declined to reveal the price.

Defending Nascar champion Jimmie Johnson won his third race of the season, powering past Greg Biffle after a late pit stop at Auto Club Speedway in southern California to clinch a spot in the Sprint Cup Series playoff. Johnson, who started from the pole position yesterday in his Chevrolet Impala, led for 227 of 250 laps. Biffle got ahead with a fast pit stop during the last caution period and led for a lap before Johnson passed him with 28 laps to go. Biffle finished

The following companies may have unusual price changes in U.S. markets tomorrow. Stock symbols are in parentheses after company names. Share prices are from the last close. Boeing Co. (BA US): The International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, Boeing's largest union, urged members to reject the planemaker's contract offer next week and walk off the job in a strike that would shut down production and might further delay the 787 Dreamliner. The shares slipped 1.2 percent to $65.56 in regular trading.

Manchester City's owner agreed to sell the English Premier League soccer team to an Abu Dhabi investment company for an undisclosed amount. The Abu Dhabi United Group for Development and Investment will now look at the club's accounts and contracts before completing the takeover, City said on its Web site today. Sulaiman Al-Fahim, a board member of the Gulf company, declined to release the price.

At least eight refineries across the U.S. Gulf Coast, including plants owned by Valero Energy Corp., ConocoPhillips and Exxon Mobil Corp., have been shut as companies brace for Hurricane Gustav's arrival. Almost half of U.S. refining capacity is located along the Gulf Coast. The shuttered refineries are taking with them about

Balyasny Asset Management LP recruited more than 30 money managers and analysts from competing hedge funds in the first eight months of the year, exceeding its total for all of 2007. ``We have been aggressively looking for talent, and in a year like this, there are a lot more candidates out there,'' said Barry Colvin, vice chairman of the Chicago-based firm, which oversees $2.5 billion. Hires came from New York-based Satellite Asset Management LP and Magnetar Capital LLC in Chicago, which have both lost money this year.

Pedro Martinez picked up his fifth win to help the New York Mets maintain their division-lead yesterday, while Milwaukee's CC Sabathia pitched a one-hitter and Arizona's Brandon Webb was again denied his 20th win. Martinez allowed two runs over six innings and was backed by three home runs as the Mets beat the Florida Marlins 6-2 at Dolphin Stadium in Miami.

A European Parliament committee proposed easing a cap on carbon dioxide from cars by excluding part of the fleet for three years to allay German worries about the cost for automakers such as Daimler AG and Porsche SE. The European Union assembly's industry committee recommended imposing the emission curbs on 60 percent of the car fleet initially in 2012 and raising the share of vehicles covered gradually to 100 percent in 2015. EU regulators proposed introducing the cap on all new cars sold in the EU in 2012.

U.K. stocks declined for the first time in four days, led by shares of mining companies after copper prices fell. Bodycote Plc fell after Merrill Lynch & Co. recommended selling the shares. The FTSE 100 Index lost 49.5, or 0.9 percent, to 5,587.1 at 8:51 a.m. in London. The FTSE All-Share Index slid 0.8 percent. Ireland's ISEQ Index fell 1.4 percent.

By Catherine Holahan
      They came from as far away as Texas and crossed party lines to arrive in Minneapolis on Tuesday. But the thousands of people lined up outside the Target Center in Minneapolis didn’t come  for the Republican National Convention. They were here for Ron Paul’s “other convention.” The Texan developed a large Web following during his run for the Republican nomination, attracting many life-long Republicans, some anti-war Democrats, and a healthy slice of Silicon Valley with his staunch support of small government and non-interventionist foreign policy. “He is setting up a system that will allow people to reduce the federal government and give back to the states,” says Gordon Stark, a retired marketer turned construction worker who traveled to Minneapolis from Texas the hear Paul launch his “Campaign For Liberty.”

Barack Obama’s first ad salvos against John McCain since he chose Alaska Governor Sarah Palin range from tepid to torpedo. First the torpedo: Last night, one night before Palin addresses the GOP convention in St. Paul, the Obama campaign began running an ad spotlighting Senator McCain’s anti-choice position on abortion. Interestingly, the ad does not mention Palin and her even more rabid [than McCain] opposition to the choice position. That, according to one Democratic strategist with a line into the Obama campaign, was smart because of the news swirl around the pregnancy of Governor Palin’s 17-year old single daughter. “The ad goes very well to shine a light on Palin’s anti-choice position, which will be totally out of synch with 95% of Hillary voters and a majority of independents,” said the strategist. “But Obama can claim the high road for steering clear of Palin in the ad.”

By Emily Thornton The pain from Corporate America’s debt binge over the last several years appears to be far from over, judging from a report put out today by Diane Vazza, a managing director of Standard & Poor’s. (Like BusinessWeek, Standard & Poor’s is a division of McGraw-Hill Companies.) 
       
      About 25% of American companies’ debt ratings are now at risk of being downgraded, according to Vazza’s report. That’s the highest ratio since 26% of companies had a negative outlook or were put on Credit Watch with negative implications in December 2003. “The proportion of issuers listed with a negative bias is currently at more elevated levels than ever recorded in this credit cycle,” Vazza writes. Companies are most vulnerable in the forest products and building materials, mortgage, automotive, and media industries.

By Joseph Weber
      Gamblers who think Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin will be dropped from the vice-presidential line on the Republican ticket have a place to put their money on the line now. Intrade, the nine-year-old Dublin-based online prediction market where bettors can wager on anything from hurricanes to Emmy award candidates, has set up a market called “Sarah Palin to be withdrawn as Republican VP nominee.” By late afternoon in Ireland, the market had attracted only a small number of bidders who snapped up about 319 "contracts." They gave the chance of her withdrawal at 10-12%. Bettors wager $10 bets.

By Keith Epstein
      Corporate boards and HR specialists everywhere might learn something from the Republicans’ unfolding (Democrats hope, unraveling) experience in choosing a little-known, virtually unexamined candidate for the vice presidential ticket. The New York Times, Anchorage Daily News and others are reporting the rather skimpy background checking by John McCain’s campaign – and very brief pre-announcement encounter by the two – that might have turned up disclosures now making their way onto television and the blogosphere. How well do you really know that executive you just interviewed and offered a job with a handshake? You can trust those who vouched for the job candidate, but is that enough? How much investigation is enough investigation? How do you balance too much asking around about a CEO or other prospective job candidate – without risking premature disclosure? Hopefully better than the McCain campaign appears to have known Sarah Palin.

More evidence that American voters have the attention span of a hummingbird: The sudden drop in crude oil prices already appears to be reducing the potency of energy policy as a Presidential campaign issue. However, a somewhat lower profile for oil might not be such a bad thing when it comes to progress on crafting a serious energy policy, given that a free-for-all political campaign is hardly the best venue for hammering out an intelligent compromise. Public concern about energy costs crested in June and July when the price of crude oil hit a record close of $145 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Fully a quarter of Americans cited fuel and oil prices as the biggest problem facing the U.S., 25% in a June Gallup Poll and 23% in July, up from just 3% in February. But it didn't take long for lower prices to turn many Americans' attention elsewhere. By Aug. 7-10, when crude oil dipped below $120 a barrel, just 15% of Gallup's respondents cited fuel prices as Enemy No. 1. That percentage is likely to dip even more in Gallup's September poll, with crude going below $110. On Sept. 3 crude hit $108.85 on Nymex, off 25% from its peak. Oil has been dragged down by speculation that slower global economic growth will curb demand. Environmentalists cheered when Americans began driving less in response to higher fuel prices. By early July, when prices peaked, U.S. gasoline consumption was down 2.5% from the average for the same three-week period over 2005-2007, according to data from the Energy Dept. But again, the fall in prices seems to have induced Americans to break some of their newly made vows to carpool, bike, and telecommute. Gasoline consumption is still depressed, but not as much. It was off just 1.3% for the three weeks through Aug. 21 compared with the 2005-07 average. Energy "isn't a hair-on-fire issue" anymore, says Frank V. Maisano, a principal at the law firm of Bracewell & Giuliani. That's good, because the energy problem is too complex to be solved with sloganeering, argues Maisano, who represents oil refiners, electric utilities, and wind energy developers. Of course, complete public neglect of energy issues wouldn't do anything for policy progress, either. But with oil still at historically high levels, there's not much chance of that.

Just a few days ago, it would hardly have seemed possible that one of the speakers at the Republican convention in St. Paul’s Xcel Energy Center could spark more curiousity and anticipation than the appearances made by Hillary and Bill Clinton gave before their Democratic brethren last week in Denver, with all their accompanying drama. But that, as they say, was then. And this is now. Following John McCain’s surprise nomination of Alaska governor Sarah Palin, her speech tonight may now qualify as the most heavily-awaited speech of the twin conventions. That reflects the intense curiousity about the little known 44 year old mother of five who started out as a small town mayor before leaping to the Governor's office by taking on much more experienced rivals -- and the fact that she's become something of a Rorschach test reflecting the views of those looking on. Is she inexperienced and unqualified, as many Democrats claim, or is she an energetic reformer and oil industry expert who will help a McCain presidency bring change to Washington and develop the policies needed to resolve our energy woes?

Detroit's Big Three are desperate for capital. So they've stormed the conventions in Denver and St. Paul-Minneapolis to get it. The automakers have been trying to persuade Congress to speed up funding for $25 billion in subsidized loans to help retool their old plants. Given the industry's deteriorating state, they now say they need an extra $25 billion, all to be lent at low rates of 5% or so. Detroit's lobbyists want the funding approved before Congress adjourns on Sept. 30. Teams flew in from Detroit and Washington, intent on using the conventions' myriad receptions, lunches, parties, and chance meetings to make the case for the loan program to as many members of Congress as possible. The automakers arrived with coordinated strategies and talking points. The United Auto Workers worked their contacts, too. "This issue is white hot," says Ziad S. Ojakli, group vice-president for government and community relations at Ford Motor. "We are focusing on it like a laser." Why the rush? The loan program was first approved by Congress last December as part of the bill requiring automakers to get their fleets up to an average of 35 miles per gallon by 2020. The engineering and plant-retooling costs required to meet those standards will run to some $100 billion, according to Greg Martin, General Motors' Washington spokesman. Congress agreed to provide low-cost loans but hasn't approved the funds yet. Ojakli says Detroit needs fast access to cheap capital or the industry's woes will deepen. He argues that it is just as critical to the U.S. to keep auto manufacturing alive as it is to support the country's financial system with aid to troubled banks. "This is not a bailout. We're looking to lower the cost of capital so we can meet the [fuel efficiency] mandate put on us and transform our industry faster," he says. Of course, it has escaped no one's notice that Ohio and Michigan, two states hugely dependent on this sector, are critical swing states in the Presidential election. The automakers have far more leverage now than they will have after Nov. 5. "The road to the White House leads through the auto states," adds Bruce H. Andrews, Ford's vice-president for government relations. "When the candidates are on that road, we want to be holding up the billboards to let them know what's important." Already, Detroit's lobbyists have won the Presidential candidates over. Senator Barack Obama supports expanding the loans to total $50 billion. Rival Senator John McCain has voiced his support for the original $25 billion plan. But with some in Congress unconvinced that the auto industry merits help more than others do, the automakers are grabbing every opportunity to spread the word. An industry lobbyist ran into a senator on a Denver street, sat down for a quick coffee, and pitched the loansan unlikely event in Washington's more formal confines. Auto execs still fear they'll run out of time before they can win enough support. Both Congress and the White House are sensitive to the risk that if they backstop the automakers after bailing out the financial sector, they could face more pleas as the weak economy takes its toll on other industries. Winning the funding "is going to be a challenge in this environment," says a longtime lobbyist closely watching the debate from outside the industry. That said, the automakers hold a trump card: Michigan and Ohio have 37 electoral votes.

High energy prices have become a bitterly contested political issue. Republicans are bashing Democrats for standing in the way of drilling for more oil and gas at home, while Democrats retort that their rivals are misleading the American public by saying that such drilling would significantly lower prices. Yet amid the partisan bomb-throwing over America's future energy policy, Washington is actually making a rare effort to forge a compromise. Over the summer a group of five GOP and five Democratic senators, dubbed the Gang of 10, hammered out a comprehensive energy proposal. And now, after taking withering heat from both left and right, the idea is gaining support. Three more senators from each party have officially signed on, and the proposal is expected to come up for a vote in the Senate when Congress returns from the current recess. "We've seen the tide gradually turn," says Senator Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.), who began the effort with a visit in June to Senate colleague Kent Conrad (D-N.D.). "Thank goodness there are some people willing to work across the aisle." The proposal contains some items on the Republican wish list, such as opening areas of the Outer Continental Shelf to drilling and boosting nuclear power. The Democrats get incentives for wind, solar, and other renewables along with energy efficiency measures—and pay for much of the projected $84 billion cost by eliminating tax breaks on the oil and gas industry. "Some environmentalists have serious problems with it, but it's actually a pretty good deal," says Joseph J. Romm, senior fellow at the Center for American Progress, a Democratic think tank, and a top Energy Dept. official in the Clinton Administration. As the compromise gains momentum, it is creating dilemmas for both parties. There are plenty of reasons to be against it. For one, John McCain's choice for running mate, Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, is a strong advocate of opening up new areas like the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to the oil and gas industry. Polls also show that Republicans are getting a major boost by blaming Democrats for blocking increases in oil and gas supplies, so why would they give up their best campaign issue? "One man knows we must now drill more in America and rescue our family budgets:…McCain," says one ad for the GOP Presidential candidate, which accuses Democratic rival Barack Obama of standing in the way. A compromise with the Democrats would "cut the knees off of Senator McCain," Rush Limbaugh recently charged on his radio show. In addition, oil and gas companies are leaning heavily on their GOP friends to oppose the plan. "Opening up a very, very minor area [to drilling] and punishing the industry while doing it makes absolutely no sense," says Charles T. Drevna, president of the National Petrochemical & Refiners Assn. For their part, Democrats fear losing support among core constituents if they vote to drill. On the other hand, members of Congress got an earful during the August recess from voters who want action now. "People are increasingly weary of this endless toxic partisanship. They are hungry for results," says North Dakota's Conrad. And it's not just voters who are frustrated. "The business community has finally come to the point where we think there is blame all around," says Jack N. Gerard, president of the American Chemistry Council, which represents the chemical industry. "There's way too much politics and not enough policy." Chemical companies are upset that Congress hasn't done anything to increase supplies of natural gas, the industry's feedstock. Wind and solar companies warn that failure to renew their tax credits will devastate their industries. Meanwhile, the narrow escape from Hurricane Gustav, which slammed into the Gulf Coast on Sept. 1, is yet another reminder of the nation's energy vulnerability. With 20% of the country's oil production capacity in the Gulf of Mexico, a catastrophic storm would ratchet up the already sharp pain in Americans' pocketbooks. This delicate political calculus is forcing some in Washington toward compromise. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) has agreed to hold a vote on drilling. In early August, Senator John E. Sununu (R-N.H.) won praise from conservatives for not joining the Gang of 10's plan. But he's in a tight race, and New Hampshire has been hit hard by high energy prices. On Aug. 26, Sununu signed on. If the plan does come up for a vote in the Senate, it will be a key test for both Presidential contenders, forcing them to go on record on a major issue. McCain has yet to get behind the compromise. Lead economics adviser Douglas J. Holtz-Eakin explains that while McCain supports the notion of a bipartisan approach, he doesn't like the repeal of tax breaks for the oil and gas industry. "Senator McCain believes we don't need to be raising taxes," he says. In contrast, Obama supports the basic framework, along with the general idea of bipartisan compromise. "If I had to reduce the McCain energy platform to a single word, it would be 'drill,' while ours would be 'diversity,'" explains Jason Grumet, Obama's senior adviser on energy. "It's the difference between serious energy policy and slogans." The proposal still faces an uphill battle. "Both the Left and the Right are quite unhappy with what we came up with," says Conrad. "It's kind of sad that offering solutions to a serious challenge facing the country is seen as being disloyal to one's own party." Even if the political stars do begin to align, Congress doesn't have much time to broker the deal before the Presidential election, and the Bush Administration vows to veto anything that it believes is a tax increase. Meanwhile, falling oil prices could lessen the urgency of the issue for lawmakers. But Washington insiders say real progress has been made toward a compromise that breaks the gridlock on energy. "Whether it happens in this Congress or the next one, it is clear we are close to getting something done," says Gerard.

If you’ve never systematically surveyed customers’ views on your organization, you probably don’t know what they are. We all need customer feedback to assess the performance of our salespeople, the quality of our products, and the value of our services. It helps us improve the success of our sales calls, gain an edge on the competition, reinforce strengths, and compensate for weaknesses. A well-designed customer survey can help you to:
       
      • Assess the company’s position with its very best customers. • Determine whether you are missing sales opportunities with existing customers.

On July 14, Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson sought authority to pump unlimited amounts of capital into Fannie Mae (FNM) and Freddie Mac (FRE) in an emergency. Since then, Fannie Mae’s stock has dropped 23%. Oh well. Gory details below.

Sometimes the media becomes the news. On a morning press call with RNC officials Tuesday, both reporters and Republicans openly questioned whether the press coverage of Vice Presidential nominee Sarah Palin was fair. The discussion was prompted by a reference to a front page  NY Times piece alleging that Palin was a member of the Alaska Independence Party. The paper said today that it was given misinformation by that party’s chairwoman and  corrected the story.

Sarah Perez at ReadWriteWeb reports on a new eBay marketplace for green and fair-trade products called World of Good. It’s a partnership with the organization of the same name, which has both corporate and non-profit arms. The idea is that each product is verified by independent organizations to be fair-trade, environmentally conscious, etc. Many also have direct information about the producer on the product page. This struck me as an attempt to bring full circle Kiva, the peer-to-peer microlender designed to give entrepreneurs in the developing world access to small loans to start businesses. eBay's World of Good could give those same entrepreneurs access to the global market. It's no surprise that eBay founder and chairman Pierre Omidyar has a big interest in microfinance. His philanthropic investment group, Omidyar Network, has backed many microlenders, as well as World of Good.

Ulli Muenker, Our search engine optimization expert visited my office last week. As we talked, she let drop that Blogspotting was a most search-engine-unfriendly name. Who, after all, sits down and decides to look for some “blogspotting?” Other bad SEO titles? Ones with the bloggers’ names in them, like Fine On Media and Nussbaum on Design. But, I said, those were my idea! I urged Bruce and Jon to use their own names in the blogs. It was a way to build their personal brands. Yes, but who looks for a Nussbaum or (tougher for Google) a Fine? Well, I said, I’d bet plenty of people look for NYT brands like Friedman and Dowd. It’s in Nussbaum and Fine’s interest to have their own brands, and not just be the interchangeable BusinessWeek person covering one thing or another.

As noted the other day, the IPO market has gotten as quiet as its been since the 2001 to 2003 post-bubble drought years. But that doesn’t mean it’s time for investors to look away. The good folks at Renaissance Capital have a report up this week on their newly redesigned web site looking at what’s in store for the rest of the year. When times are tough, the crop of potential IPOs may shrink but it also tends towards more solid and dependable companies as investors shun the the fly-by-night types. And instead of watching newly-priced IPOs head for the stratosphere, investors can sometimes pick up bargains after share prices drop. There are currently 129 active IPO filings, excluding special purpose aquisition deals, according to Renaissance. In a look at a few dozen of the more interesting prospects, they provide plenty of fodder for further investigation. Topping the list, at least by revenue, are a pair of energy companies, a hospital operator and risk manager which all filed to go public in the last five weeks and didn’t draw much attention from vacationing investors.

Sarah Palin may have been nominated for her conservative values. But what Web surfers want to see are her beauty queen credentials. According to Web research firm Hitwise, the top terms surrounding searches for the Republican vice-presidential candidate are “Vogue Magazine,” “photos,” and “beauty pageant.” Though Web surfers also searched for Palin’s positions on abortion and her voting record last week, there were far more queries relating to the words “pictures,” “hot,” and “scandal,” undoubtedly referring to Palin’s announcement that her teenage daughter was pregnant.

Unlike Barack Obama, John McCain opted into the public funding system for presidential campaigns, meaning he gave up the right to raise private contributions once nominated by the Republican Party. So what’s the big green “Donate Now” button doing on the front page of www.JohnMcCain.com, which we spotted roughly where the Gustav button had been? (The most prominent spots seem to cycle, but you can also find it bottom right.)

Republican Party officials sought to put their national convention back on track today by giving a prime speaking slot to President George W. Bush and returning their focus to presumptive nominee John McCain. After the convention's opening day was knocked off course by news that Alaska Governor Sarah Palin's 17-year-old daughter is pregnant and Hurricane Gustav striking the Gulf Coast, the party resumed a schedule of evening speeches, including those by Bush, Democrat-turned-independent Senator Joseph Lieberman and former Senator Fred Thompson.

Are we running out of Internet? That's what some experts say. AT&T's (T) top lobbyist, James Cicconi, recently warned that "we are going to be butting up against the physical capacity of the Internet by 2010." Cicconi and others say this warrants charging heavy users a premium, and he doesn't want new laws that would stop AT&T from doing so. Advocacy groups say that if the AT&Ts and Comcasts of the world have their way with Congress, they'll slow transmission of movies and video on the Net—except when it's content they provide for a fee. They have a point. The service providers' lobbying is all part of a major fight over government's role in ensuring access to Internet content, an issue known as "Net neutrality." Unfortunately, the debate is generating a lot more heat than light, with neither side willing to let the facts get in the way of a passionate argument. The service providers have an interest in creating the impression that Internet capacity is a scarce and expensive resource. AT&T executive Richard N. Clarke argued in a recent white paper that the cost of providing unlimited Internet service to some homes may be as high as $416 a month. Such claims bolster service providers' arguments that, to manage their networks efficiently, they must closely monitor what their customers are doing and possibly impose surcharges or caps to control excess usage. The problem is, there's little evidence of any capacity shortage. Despite a surge in online video watching, the growth of Internet traffic does not appear to be accelerating. An ongoing Internet traffic study at the University of Minnesota and parallel research by Cisco Systems (CSCO) show that traffic is growing at 35% to 50% a year, about the same rate as in the past several years. "If anything, the trend is down rather than up," says Andrew Odlyzko of the University of Minnesota's Digital Technology Center. "There is no sign of the [predicted] explosion of traffic." That's not to dismiss the growth or deny that it presents challenges. Cicconi actually understated the case when he said AT&T expects volume to increase fiftyfold by 2015; at current growth rates, the increase will be closer to a hundredfold. But this is the same growth rate network providers have coped with for years. The fact is, technological advances have allowed massive increases in the data capacity of networks, and those advances keep coming. Yes, there is growing congestion on cable systems, where the final bit of bandwidth is shared, leading Comcast (CMCSA) to impose a 250GB-per-month limit on some subscribers. But the logjam is being alleviated by upgrades in cable technology, so Comcast's new rules will probably be short-lived. With prices falling on the fiber-optic cables and routers that make up the Internet, a capacity crunch seems unlikely in the next two years. If the big service providers are resorting to hyperbole, the same is true of their opponents. On its Web site, the SavetheInternet.com Coalition warns that the phone and cable companies "want to tax content providers to guarantee speedy delivery of their data. They want to discriminate in favor of their own search engines, Internet phone services, and streaming video—while slowing down or blocking their competitors." There is barely a shred of evidence in word or in deed to support such claims. It's true that the Federal Communications Commission recently sanctioned Comcast for violating principles of network neutrality by interfering with a fast file-sharing technology called BitTorrent. It was a ham-handed effort, and Comcast compounded the damage by failing to come clean when users complained. But there's no sign Comcast was acting out of malice. There are valid questions about how governments should manage networks, if at all. But at this point, exaggerations and distortions are standing in for serious debate.

Laura Bush and Cindy McCain closed a shortened first day of a Republican convention that was knocked off course by news that Alaska Governor Sarah Palin's 17-year-old daughter is pregnant, the landfall of Hurricane Gustav in Louisiana and protesters who were dispersed with tear gas. The daughter, Bristol, is five months pregnant and plans to have the baby and marry the father of the child, according to a statement released yesterday by the McCain campaign, which scrambled to squelch any negative stories about the family of his vice presidential pick.

Ahh, the Internet and its metrics. Net Applications, which tracks browser marketshare, has a report up that’s tracking Google hour by hour.

So Google just launched the beta version of its open-source Web browser, Chrome. The search behemoth also made available the back story of the browser’s design, available in a graphic-novel style narrative. Drawn by an artist named Scott McCloud (a leading comics expert and an early creator of online comic books) and written by the engineers who worked on Chrome, the curious document features entertaining sketches of the real-life Google team behind the new browser, replete with geeky glasses and untucked shirts, as well as cartoony images of sad browsers and insects to represent bugs in the software. No surprises there, of course. But the document is a good example of how to make interface design and the process of writing software code seem alive to kids, tweens, and teens. Perhaps it’s a way to engage future programmers when they’re young. There’s so much talk on the need to beef up education in the States to keep innovation flowing. And educators are always searching for ways to make computer science come alive.

It can be tough for a struggling industry to talk Washington into writing it a big check: There’s always another needy business waiting in the wings. But when your industry employs thousands of people in swing states with a combined 37 votes, some things seem a little more possible. And that, as this BusinessWeek article explains, is what brings Detroit to Minneapolis, hat in hand, fresh on the heels of a few days in Denver.

The following companies are having unusual price changes in Brazil trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are as of 9:44 a.m. New York time. Preferred shares are usually the most-traded class of stock. The Bovespa index slipped 0.2 percent to 55,068.38.

International Shipholding Corp., whose vessels carry cars and trucks for Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co., rose the most in 20 years after closely held Liberty Shipping Group LLC proposed a $308 million buyout to triple its fleet. International Shipholding, based in Mobile, Alabama, climbed $3.48, or 17 percent, to $23.73, at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest jump since February 1988. The shares are up 9 percent this year.

Italy's S&P/MIB Index pared losses, adding 366, or 1.3 percent, to 29,141. Futures expiring in September declined 331, or 1.2 percent, to 29,210. The following were among the most active stocks on the Italian market today. Share symbols are in parentheses.

Alcatel-Lucent SA, the world's largest supplier of fixed-line phone networks, chose former BT Group Plc Chief Executive Officer Ben Verwaayen to run the company as it seeks to end six straight quarters of losses. Philippe Camus, co-managing partner of Lagardere SCA, will serve as non-executive chairman of the Paris-based company, Alcatel-Lucent said in a statement today. Verwaayen and Camus replace Patricia Russo and Serge Tchuruk, who said in July they're leaving Alcatel-Lucent after $7 billion in losses since the merger that created the company.

As national co-chair of John McCain’s campaign, Meg Whitman has championed the Republican candidates’ ideas for small business owners. During her convention speech Sept. 3, she continued to promote a McCain/Palin administration as the best bet for small American entrepreneurs. “They will push Congress to reduce business taxes so that entrepreneurs and especially small businesses have the money they need to create jobs,” said Whitman. “Higher taxes encourage wasteful spending… and destroys your prosperity.”

The S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 33.50 points, or 0.7 percent, to 5,151.80 at 12:05 p.m. in Sydney, the highest since June 30. The broader All Ordinaries Index gained 26.40 points, or 0.5 percent, to 5,226.40, while the futures index expiring in September advanced 0.5 percent to 5,166.

The following is a list of companies whose stocks may have unusual changes in Paris. Symbols are in parentheses after company names and prices are from the last close. September futures on France's CAC 40 Index dropped 16 to 4,459 at 8:18 a.m. in Paris.

The following is a list of companies whose stocks may have unusual changes in Paris. Symbols are in parentheses after company names and prices are from the last close. France's CAC 40 Index climbed 66.94, or 1.5 percent, to 4,539.07 in Paris, its highest level since June 19. The SBF 120 Index also increased 1.5 percent.

Ford Motor Co. won court approval of an agreement that lets the second-biggest U.S.-based automaker shift retiree health-care obligations to a union-run trust. U.S. District Judge Robert Cleland in Detroit issued an order Aug. 29 allowing creation of the Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association, or VEBA. Ford reached an accord on the fund with the United Auto Workers union last year.

France's CAC 40 Index climbed 45.87, or 1 percent, to 4,518 at 11:25 a.m. in Paris, its highest level since Aug. 11. The SBF 120 Index increased 1.1 percent. The following stocks rose or fell in Paris. Stock symbols are in parentheses.

BASF SE, PPG Industries Inc. and other chemical producers prepared to restart coastal Louisiana and Texas factories after Hurricane Gustav spared the industry damage like Katrina and Rita caused three years ago. BASF, the world's biggest chemical maker, shut four of 14 production sites on the Gulf Coast, spokesman Daniel Pepitone said. Three should start soon and the fourth requires restoration of electricity. PPG plans to restart a chlorine and caustic-soda plant in Lake Charles, Louisiana, as soon as local officials lift an evacuation order, spokesman Jack Maurer said.

The following is a list of companies whose shares may have unusual price changes in U.K. and Irish markets today. Stock symbols are in parentheses and prices are from the last market close. The benchmark FTSE 100 Index fell 33.8, or 0.6 percent, to 5,602.80. The FTSE All-Share Index fell 0.5 percent, and Ireland's ISEQ Index dropped 0.4 percent.

Former HP CEO Carly Fiorina delivered mostly Fiorinized McCain talking points in her GOP convention speech tonight. Curious, though, was her refrain, “I Know John McCain,” which she delivered about a dozen times. As someone who has written a few speeches (for myself, CEOs and one Governor)I was trying to figure out what was to be gained by the refrain.

The following companies are having unusual price changes in U.S. markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are as of 11:15 a.m. in New York. Energy and commodity companies slumped after Hurricane Gustav spared drilling platforms in the Gulf of Mexico, sending fuel and metals prices tumbling. Crude oil futures fell 5.6 percent to $109.01 a barrel, the lowest since April 8. Natural gas slid 7.8 percent to $7.33 per million British thermal units, an eight-month low. Precious metals declined as the drop in fuel prices cut demand for assets that hedge against inflation.

UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG will have to hold more capital in reserve against their assets following subprime-related losses, the head of Switzerland's Federal Banking Commission said. ``We plan to introduce the new rules by the end of the year at the latest,'' Chairman Eugen Haltiner said in an interview at a conference in Zurich today. The commission received the banks' replies to its proposal and is discussing details of the plan, he said. ``We are going ahead with the leverage ratio.''

K+S AG, Europe's biggest producer of potash used in fertilizers, may replace TUI AG, owner of Europe's largest travel business, in Germany's benchmark DAX Index, according to analysts at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg. ``K+S is the leading candidate to enter the DAX,'' Anke Platzek, an LBBW analyst in Stuttgart, Germany, said today. Christian Stocker, an index strategist at UniCredit Markets & Investment Banking in Munich, and Petra von Kerssenbrock, an analyst at Commerzbank AG, also expected K+S to replace TUI.











































Well, looks like she hit it out of the park. Or perhaps more appropriately, it looks like Sarah Palin scored a hat trick. In a high-stakes speech at the Xcel Energy Center, she easily won over the crowd of Republican convention-goers with her feisty, folksy delivery and pointedly partisan rhetoric. But more importantly, she appears to have hit all the right notes for the folks watching back home on TV.  Both campaigns have identified financially anxious white working voters — particularly women — as crucial to victory in November. In both her words and her tone, Palin’s speech was clearly aimed straight at them. The first-term Alaska governor spent a big chunk of her time onstage simply introducing herself to a country in which she was virtually unknown a week ago. Describing herself as “just your average hockey mom” when she first joined the PTA, she dismissed the Washington and media elites who’ve questioned her background and qualifications. If there was one thing she set out to make clear, it was that no one should mistake for one of those elitists in the other camp.

Should we be scared of inflation? Consumer prices are up 5.6% over the past year, the biggest jump since 1991. But oil prices are heading down, and commodities such as corn, aluminum, and copper are well off  their peaks. In fact, the inflation picture is as muddled as it has ever been. For every statistic that shows inflation heading up, there's another that shows inflation on the downswing. Indeed, the most important price in the economy—the average hourly wage—is rising at a snail's pace, as workers get squeezed by higher unemployment. This lack of clarity puts Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and the other members of the policymaking Federal Open Market Committee in a bind. When they next meet on Sept. 16, they won't know whether inflation is out-of-control or tame—so they won't know whether interest rates need to be raised or even lowered. To see the statistical mishmash, look at the price of gross domestic purchases—that is, what we buy as a nation, including imports (chart). That price is up by 3.5%, compared with 2.6% a year ago. Worrisome, right? But the inflation figures for gross domestic product—the goods and services we make here and consume or export abroad—tell a different story. That widely cited rate has fallen from 2.8% a year ago to 2% today, the lowest level since 2002. Or consider producer prices, which are prices received by domestic companies that are the original "producers" of a good or service. On Aug. 19 the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced the Producer Price Index for Finished Goods was up a huge 9.8% over the previous year. But hidden at the back of the same report are some new numbers the BLS has recently started calculating: overall producer price indexes for the service sector, which makes up a much larger share of the economy than goods. In particular, the BLS now provides a price index for what it calls traditional services, including industries from banking to legal services to travel agencies to hotels to health care to Web search portals. Inflation, as measured by the producer price index for traditional services, is running at only 0.4% over the last year, down from 1.8% in December 2007. In other words, there's no sign of inflation being passed through to the service sector so far. Wage increases, too, are slowing. In the second quarter of 2007 average hourly wages and salaries were rising at a decent 3.9% clip for all private sector workers. Now the same data show a 2.6% increase, even including top managers. Does that seem like runaway inflation? Here's one final thing for Bernanke and his crew to think about as they debate interest rates. In the second quarter both the Japanese and Eurozone economies contracted. If the global slump continues, and U.S. unemployment rises, businesses and workers may end up with little pricing power. Zero inflation, anyone?

If you were its commissioner, what one thing would you do to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of my workplace, the IRS? - Ned Nazzaro, Washington D.C.
 Simple: We'd differentiate between employees. And we believe that, within five years, radical change in its management system would catapult the IRS to a new, supercharged level of productivity and results. Agents would be energized to work faster and smarter, and ideas for improvements would flow across the organization. More than 100 million customers—every adult taxpaying U.S. citizen—would feel the positive impact. Too bad it's impossible. And not because the IRS is a special case. It's like every other government agency, from the Post Office to public schools (as disheartening as that is to think about). Because of their staff's lifetime job security, managers have few mechanisms to reward great performance, so employees have little reason to be more effective or efficient. All they need to do is show up and, well, not screw up. Now, with its 115,000 employees, the IRS undoubtedly has thousands of self-motivated, change-hungry civil servants in its ranks. You, for one, care passionately enough about its future to ask your question. But the prevalence of organized labor thwarts public agencies from making change, except around the edges. An IRS commissioner might lobby for new technology to streamline online filing. Or he might work around union rules to encourage his achievers with customer-service awards. But beyond such modest suggestions, we can't answer your question. Our approach to management, with differentiation at its base, is like the approach used to field the best team in sports. It can't work unless managers can reward the best players so they're motivated to stick around and "play" even harder, coach the middle ones to improve, and move out the underperformers. Sure, some pieces of our approach can translate into the IRS setting. The agency could, for example, develop a clear mission and link it to gritty, actionable values. It could also adopt our principle of candor in all communications and ensure that all employees have their voices heard with respect. But none of our principles can transform an organization without differentiation as an "enforcement" device. Say, for instance, that the IRS intended to make taxation a faster and less painful experience. What values (and therefore behaviors) would it seek from its employees? We can only guess, but rapid response and courtesy would probably be on the list. Great, but then what? If managers can't reward courteous, fast employees or move out the surly and slow, mission and values are like laws in a country without police. The same goes for candor. Without a reward for it, why would anybody in the IRS, or elsewhere, muster up the courage to speak frankly? Without differentiation, in other words, our whole system is pretty useless. (You can read about our management philosophy on our Web site: welchway.com.) Sorry to offer you such a frustrating response, but we're frustrated ourselves. A week doesn't go by when we aren't asked a question like yours, about improving performance or creating change in a government setting. Usually we write a personal note of apology—not our area—and leave it at that. But the IRS touches so many people. And its inability to change due to lack of differentiation may soon become a much wider problem. Why? The answer is the Employee Free Choice Act, proposed legislation that aims to remove the secret ballot from organized labor elections, which could foster union-building. In 2007, the last time this legislation was politically alive, it passed the House but stalled in the Senate. Come January, there may be a new configuration on Capitol Hill, and the stall would likely shift into "full steam ahead." If so, companies large and small might face a wave of unionization efforts. And in short order, they might also be faced with the same limitations that constrain your employer. The IRS's hobbling lack of differentiation would no longer be the exception; it could be the rule.

What you give and what you take from a negotiation is proportional to the magnitude of the agreement you’re working on. So while forgoing minute details in small deals may not have grave consequences for your company, oversights when brokering a larger deal can lead to disastrous results. A recent presentation I attended on negotiating skills offered some invaluable guidelines to bear in mind when you’re working on a deal. Here are a few of the keepers I took away:

A female protester disrupted the beginning of Republican nominee John McCain’s speech Thursday night with indiscernible shouts seemingly about ending the Iraq War. She was wearing pink, however—the tell tale color of anti-war group “Code Pink.” Members of Code Pink also have disrupted speeches by Vice Presidential nominee Sarah Palin and others. Though, unlike other times, the cameras and McCain actually acknowledged the protester. At one point in his speech, McCain asked the crowd to ignore the “static” and said Americans didn’t want to hear any more yelling.

What role should private equity play in public projects? That question became a key focus of a panel on transportation, infrastructure and global warming held at the University of Minnesota Sept. 3 during the Republican National Convention. While panelists such as St. Paul Mayor Chris Coleman advocate more private investment in public infrastructure, they were also careful to say it had to be balanced with the interest of keeping commuters’ costs low and maintaining government control over needed public systems. “There is a lot of room for private investors in our community,” says Coleman. “But there are fundamental pieces of infrastructure that are best left to government.”

Last week, we took a look at what health-care executives were saying at the Democratic National Convention in Denver. One take-away: Everyone wants reform, but they mostly focus on how the other guy reforms. This afternoon in downtown Minneapolis, I chatted with David Brennan, chief executive of AstraZeneca, who was named chairman-elect of trade group PhRMA in May. He, too, said “we need health-care reform, in a big way.”

This won't be like the last browser war. When Google (GOOG) unveiled its Web browser, Chrome, on Sept. 2 the immediate buzz was that the bruising battles played out between Netscape and Microsoft (MSFT) in the late 1990s, were back on. Google, though, has much bigger ambitions. The goal, say Google execs, is not merely to win share of an existing market, but also to change the nature of Internet browsing—and the way we use computers. If Chrome works as planned, it will lead much of computing from the desktop—Microsoft's domain—toward remote data centers. These, in the tech industry, are collectively known as the cloud. Google runs the biggest and most efficient data centers on earth, and moving much of the world's computing to them is at the heart of the company's strategy. "Google really believes the future of the Web is running applications on the Web," says Danny Sullivan, who runs Calafia Consulting, a Web consulting firm. "They want to be leading the charge." Microsoft begins this battle with an enormous head start. Its Internet Explorer dominates the browser market, with nearly a three-quarters share. Microsoft is also launching its latest upgrade, IE8, loaded with new features—including a couple that could affect Google's business. One makes it easier for users to block information that helps Google deliver more relevant ads. Google's Chrome, by contrast, is bare-bones. Its power, say Google engineers, will come from its ability to run applications faster and more securely, especially those that are handled outside the PC, on the cloud. Unlike Google's top-secret search algorithms, Chrome is open-source software others can examine and even modify. Google execs say they developed the browser, in part, for internal use. Their engineers constantly work on Web applications such as Gmail and YouTube. And they were crashing the traditional browsers, which are more oriented toward viewing Web pages. So two years ago, Google began work on Chrome. Now, by offering it to the public for free, Google hopes to encourage people to run more applications, like word processing, spreadsheets, and video editing, on the Web. If Chrome sparks this trend, it doesn't even need massive market share to help Google. More activity on the Web, whether users arrive by Chrome or other browsers, provides Google with more places to collect data and to serve search ads. "Google believes that the more time people spend on the Internet and the more things they do on the Internet, the more that will benefit Google," says Nick Carr, author of the book The Big Switch: Rewiring the World, from Edison to Google. Google is starting off in browsers ambitiously. The company is launching Chrome in 43 languages and 122 countries. Most of the magic is hidden inside the system. Google engineers developed a multiprocessor architecture, which means the browser can run separate applications in different tabs, or screens, at the same time. If one application crashes, the rest keep ticking. Another interesting feature: The search and address bar are one and the same. Type in what you're looking for, and Chrome delivers either the Web page or search results. Early reviews point to drawbacks of the browser, including the lack of a way to manage bookmarks. Google concedes that it's following its familiar pattern of "launch early and iterate." John Lilly, chief executive of Mozilla, which makes the competing Firefox browser, says it's hard to gauge how popular Chrome can become. "I think that a lot of people will start experimenting right away with Chrome. But this is a story that will play out over weeks, months, and years, not hours and days."

Honda’s name for its new Prius killer is perhaps the least innovative thing about it—it’s going to be called the Insight. The old Insight was the first mass-produced hybrid sold in the U.S. in 1999 but was phased out amid weak sales in 2006. Honda has higher hopes for the much-anticipated new model, which it plans to sell 200,000 a year and will be the first of several new hybrids. While it won’t be sold until April, Honda is showing a concept version at the Paris Auto Show, which opens at the beginning of October. Honda just released a press release  unveiling the name today and first official photos, although details of its price (expected to be about $19k) and performance remain scant. The release points out that the original Insight was the first vehicle to break the 70mpg barrier for fuel efficiency. Any guesses on how closer the new, larger Insight (but smaller than a Civic or a Prius) will get to that figure?

In a long-expected move, today cable services provider Comcast appealed Federal Communications Commission’s recent decision at the Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. In a Sept. 4 statement explaining the brief filing, Comcast claims that “the Commission’s action was legally inappropriate and its findings were not justified by the record.” As you’ll recall, the FCC told Comcast that it could not interfere with select applications, such as peer-to-peer movie download services, its broadband access customers were using. According to the three-page petition, Comcast has hired a battery of law firms to handle the case. One among them is Wiley Rein LLP, the Washington, D.C. law firm whose partners include former FCC Chairman Richard Wiley. Partner Helgi Walker who’s handling the case was associate council to President Bush during his first term in office and worked as a chief of staff for an FCC commissioner. Yes, Comcast is firing its big guns.

It’s not cheap to lay more than 20 miles of cable, capable of uploading a high definition movie in two seconds, across two different cities. And it’s definitely not cheap to pledge both the Democratic and Republican parties $6 million each in services and cash, which Qwest did in exchange for the title of official telecommunications provider of the conventions. Qwest recouped some its investment by charging media providers for the telephone lines and Internet connections needed to transmit their stories and HD videos online and on air.

First came the U.S. housing bust. Now comes the overseas aftershock. As the global financial system reels from the credit crunch, skyscraper projects have stalled in London, Tokyo developers have gone belly-up, and Indian office space can be had for fire-sale prices. What do bad U.S. home loans have to do with office buildings halfway around the planet? Plenty. Global lenders, chastened by the subprime mess, are denying credit to many builders and demanding tougher terms on loans to buy or refinance commercial properties. And as those same lenders lay off thousands of workers, they need less office space—putting downward pressure on rents and spurring developers to rethink their plans. "It's impossible nowadays to keep financial crises in one area," says Minoru Mori, chief executive of Japan's Mori Building, which just cut the ribbon on the 101-story Shanghai World Financial Center, China's tallest skyscraper. He ought to know: Lehman Brothers (LEH) recently scrapped plans to move into the building, and Morgan Stanley said it would rent only four floors instead of eight. Dealmaking has slowed sharply. The value of commercial real estate transactions worldwide in the first six months of this year was only $306 billion, about half the level of the same period in 2007, research group Real Capital Analytics estimates. "It's hard to sugarcoat what's going on," says Dan Fasulo, Real Capital's managing director of research. "The environment is the most difficult it has been in some time." London may be suffering the most. As costs for commercial real estate financing in the British capital have soared, only 3 of 19 major office projects announced since 2004 have gone ahead as planned. Developer British Land is delaying construction of a 47-story skyscraper popularly known as the Cheese Grater (owing to its triangular profile). Overall, purchase prices for British commercial property are down 20% from mid-2007 and could fall 15% more in the coming year, says Kelvin Davidson, an economist at London consultancy Capital Economics. "The market won't pick up before 2011." That might be too late to help Metrovacesa. The Spanish property group spent $3.7 billion in 2007 for the London headquarters of bank HSBC (HBC), Europe's biggest-ever real estate deal. HSBC agreed to remain in the building and extended Metrovacesa a $1.5 billion short-term loan, to be repaid this fall after the Spanish group lined up long-term financing. But analysts reckon the building has since lost at least 25% of its value, and Metrovacesa hasn't yet secured new funding. The company says it's confident it can work out an agreement. Subprime isn't the only source of trouble. In Japan, banks fared relatively well in the wake of the U.S. mess. But a flagging economy and weak consumer confidence have clobbered smaller developers. Nine publicly traded real estate and construction groups have filed for bankruptcy this year, including Sohken Homes, which sought protection from creditors on Aug. 26. That, in turn, provoked profit warnings by banks that lent to the companies. In contrast to past real estate downturns, overbuilding isn't a big problem. Vacancy rates remain low in many markets, so rents are stable. "People learned from the 1980s," when loose lending led to massive investment, says David J. Siopack, co-manager of the Schwab Global Real Estate Fund (SWAIX), which has $190 million in assets. This time, he says, "there was a little more discipline." Overexuberant development has been confined largely to fast-growing markets, particularly China and India. In the Chinese cities of Chongqing and Zhengzhou, more than 30% of existing space is vacant after a building binge two years back, and an additional 4.8 million square feet of space is due for delivery this year in the two cities, according to Jones Lang LaSalle. In India, inflation, high interest rates, and stock market turmoil have taken a toll, with rents off by as much as 40%, says Pranay Vakil, chairman of Knight Frank India, a property consultant. The U.S. slowdown, meanwhile, has dampened demand for "cubicle developments" used by outsourcing shops. "Most IT companies said, 'No more expansion,' " Vakil says. So far damage to lenders has been limited. But banks in Ireland and the Netherlands might be forced to take writedowns, and investment funds targeting Western European property could be in trouble. The outlook is even grimmer in Spain, where real estate prices have been in free fall. Martinsa-Fadesa, a major property company, filed for bankruptcy in July, and another big developer, Colonial, is struggling with $14 billion in distressed debt. For all the bad news, the situation creates opportunities for those with cash. Pension funds and sovereign wealth funds "still have money to invest," says Tim Jowett, an analyst at J.P. Morgan Asset Management  (JPM) in London. But developers may have to wait awhile. Those conservative investors won't likely put money into the market now, Jowett says, if they think that "in 6 months or 12 months prices might go lower."

Tracy Wright was sitting in shock in her Boston office. It was April 2007, and the junk bond analyst for Pioneer Investment Management had just learned that the firm's star fund manager, Margie Patel, had abruptly resigned to join a rival. Wright and colleague Andrew Feltus would take Patel's place at the $6 billion Pioneer High Yield fund. "There were a number of holy this's and holy that's," she says. Wright, 39, and Feltus, 40, had fewer years of investing experience combined than the 58-year-old Patel, who left to join Boston-based Evergreen Investments. And they had to get up to speed fast: Within weeks of the two being named co-managers, the junk bond market peaked and began a nasty downturn that hasn't ended. Fund manager transitions can often be rocky, all the more so when the departing talent racked up top-notch results like Patel's. Investors will have to brace themselves for similar turbulence ahead as a wave of Baby Boom-era stars heads for retirement. The proportion of workers in the finance industry over 50 and nearing retirement will double in the next 10 years, according to a Boston Consulting Group study. Regardless of the skill of incoming managers, funds in transition suffer from common problems. Hedge funds and other traders try to guess what positions might be sold and design strategies to squeeze profit from a fund's shifts. Sometimes investors in a fund jump ship en masse, forcing ill-timed asset sales. In many cases there is a change in investing styles. The lesson for investors isn't necessarily to flee when a star manager moves on but to make a more informed decision by being aware of challenges new managers face. Feltus and Wright were not high-yield neophytes. Feltus had racked up a better record than Patel while running the firm's smaller but similar global high-yield fund over the previous five years. After taking over the junk bond fund, Feltus and Wright finished 2007 with a 7% gain, ranking in the top 2% of all high-yield funds, according to Morningstar (MORN). But 2008 has been a tough year for junk bonds, with the average fund down 3.3%. Pioneer has lost 3.6% and ranks below 7 out of 10 similar funds. That's quite a drop from the fund's 10-year track record, which bests 99% of the industry. Says Feltus, "I expected to see a correction in the market. I did not expect to see the financial system of the United States melt down." Whether because of a bad market for junk or nerves about the new managers, investors pulled over $2 billion from the fund in 2007. Financial adviser David Nielsen at cfd Investments in Indiana wasn't one of them. "Most high-yield funds have had a bad year," he says. "The managers have been following in Margie's footsteps very well." That doesn't mean they are copying Patel's style. When they evaluated the portfolio, they immediately wanted to make some big changes. And repositioning a portfolio without tipping off the markets is one of the biggest challenges for managers taking over a fund. For Wright, who had a less traditional career path than Feltus—she was a professional-level snowboarder for four years, while he went straight into the financial world—that meant trying to keep the markets guessing about whether they were going to get rid of Patel's biggest position: a holding of over 10% in debt issued by paper giant AbitibiBowater (ABH). Wright saw paper as an industry in decline. Feltus objected to the size of the position: "I don't want to have one [position] that's going to make or break my year." Dumping Abitibi was the exact move many Wall Street junk bond trading desks expected, however. Traders sold AbitibiBowater bonds short, pushing down prices. Feltus and Wright didn't want to sell at depressed values so they zig-zagged, sticking with Abitibi some days and selling heavily other days. After six weeks they had flummoxed the shorts, who moved on to other trades. Patel had also left the fund with 18% in equities, the maximum allowed in the prospectus. Selling off several hundred million dollars' worth of stocks was easier. Feltus and Wright dropped the equity stake to 12% within a few weeks, lessening the impact of the market's tumble this summer. Not all of the pair's initial moves worked out as well. Last summer they sold some corporate bonds and used the money to buy bank loans from the same companies. Yields were about equal, even though bank loan holders have a much stronger claim than junk bond investors on a company's assets in bankruptcy. Unlike junk bonds, which pay a fixed rate of interest, rates on bank loans are pegged to the Federal Reserve's benchmark interest rate. So when the Fed cuts rates, holders of bank loans get paid less yield and the value of their loans suffers. Last year, with the market anticipating continued Fed cuts, investors sent values of bank loans skidding. Feltus and Wright dropped the strategy. Now the Fed is moving toward raising rates and Pioneer is buying some loans again. "I'm not investing for the next 30 days," says Feltus. "I'm looking at the next two years." Funds with established succession plans can largely avoid dramatic overhauls. Some firms assign up-and-coming managers as understudies for years or keep a deep bench of seasoned analysts. When value investing legend Jean-Marie Eveillard first retired in 2004, for example, his replacement at First Eagle Funds was Charles de Vaulx, who had spent 16 years at the company. The younger man was named Eveillard's co-manager in 1999. When he took over, there was little change in style, and the funds performed well over the next few years. But even a well-planned transition plan can go awry. Eveillard, enjoying his retirement in Paris, got a surprise call last March telling him de Vaulx had suddenly resigned. (He later joined New York-based International Value Advisers.) Eveillard rushed back to New York to take over the First Eagle funds again and start a new search for a successor. In July, he named Matthew McLennan, a London-based fund manager for Goldman Sachs' (GS) private clients, to run his biggest fund, the First Eagle Global Fund (SGENX). Some companies take steps to avoid transitions altogether by creating teams of managers. At top-selling American Funds, assets are divided between as many as a dozen managers. Dodge & Cox uses a group of managers who work together to pick stocks. Vanguard Group actually splits large funds among outside management firms that can be replaced as needed. Fidelity takes a different approach, often cycling analysts through industry sector- focused mutual funds to train them to manage more diversified funds. When Neal Miller stepped down two years ago as manager of the Fidelity New Millennium Fund (FMILX) after 13 highly successful years, he was succeeded by John Roth, an analyst who had run several sector funds over the previous seven years. Miller had been a top-notch trend spotter, making big bets on industries ahead of most investors. He was buying Internet stocks in 1995 and sold most before the bubble burst. Roth has run the fund in a more conventional manner and lagged similar funds by about one percentage point a year since taking over, according to Morningstar. Fidelity says the fund's goal is to outperform the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which it has done, gaining 4.9% since Roth took over vs. a 3.9% gain for the index. Over at the Pioneer (TAHYX) High Yield fund, the managers are hopeful. Outflows have slowed, and while neither manager expects a quick turnaround to the credit crisis, they note that junk bond investors are being paid for taking on risk. Junk bonds now pay about eight percentage points more yield than U.S. Treasury bonds for the same maturity. That compares favorably with a premium of less than three points when the duo first took over. Says Feltus: "We think U.S. high yield is the place to be." Business Exchange related topics:Investment ManagementU.S. Stock MarketInvesting in Growth Stocks

The Dow Jones Industrial Average just closed down almost 350 points, and the Dow and S&P 500 both lost 3% today. Panicking? There are plenty of reasons to worry, surely. But don’t overdo it.

Next week I’m scheduled to interview Robert Fairlie, a UC Santa Cruz economics professor and co-author with Alicia Robb of a new book called Race and Entrepreneurial Success. Fairlie’s book, based on extensive research and access to Census data that’s not available to the general public, has some jolting news: Fairlie and Robb focus on data, not policy prescriptions. But the implications of their data are important. For example:

The BLS has just published its response to its critics, especially John Williams at Shadow Government Statistics. The BLS writes: I looked at the Williams site, and I honestly have no idea where he gets his numbers. Can anyone enlighten me?

Democratic nominee Barack Obama has plastered the Web with his campaign slogan and related paraphernalia. And, it’s working. According to Web research firm comScore, Obama’s online ads are viewed nearly 92,000 times each month, compared to an average of just 7,435 times a month for McCain. “Not only have the two campaigns placed a different level of emphasis on the importance of using online advertising as part of the media mix, but their execution also shows stark differences,” said comScore senior analyst Andrew Lipsman in a statement. “While Obama’s ads tend to be ‘brand-building’ ads encouraging people to join the movement, McCain’s ads are often issue oriented. Additionally, while Obama ads have an almost universally positive message, McCain ads feature a mix of positive and negative messages.”

The gap between small, independent book publishers and the big houses is narrowing. At least in terms of technology. According to a story in the NYT independent publishers will now have access to the kind of digital book technology that the large publishing houses have long deployed. Under the umbrella of a new service called Constellation (and negotiated between several tech companies and Perseus), the indies will be able to utilize electronic readers, digital book search, print-on-demand among other digital resources with the “same speed and flexibility as the larger companies.”

Package delivery giants United Parcel Service (UPS) and FedEx (FDX) are making aggressive moves to pare back rising fuel costs. But UPS is also taking a more unusual step: trying to boost customer demand by loaning money to small businesses. On Sept. 9 the Atlanta company plans to unveil Cargo Finance, aimed at helping small customers that need funds to keep their product orders flowing. "We found that entrepreneurs would love to have someone provide them with working capital," says UPS Capital Senior Managing Director Chris Vukas. Given that the lending business has long been an albatross for nonfinancial companies—and isn't exactly a sweet spot for anyone these days—UPS's move reflects the lengths to which shippers are willing to go to get out of a bind. Having already watched their stocks drop 12% and 23%, respectively, over the past year, UPS and FedEx are trying to drum up new business and cut costs as the critical holiday shipping season approaches. Even with oil prices easing, analysts expect shipping volume to remain weak through 2009. Having already made obvious moves, such as limiting hiring and rolling out hybrid trucks that are more fuel-efficient, UPS and FedEx have decided it's "time to get unconventional," says John J. Coyle, professor emeritus at the Center for Supply Chain Research at Pennsylvania State University. FedEx, which is expected to report a 40% decrease in first-quarter earnings per share on Sept. 18, is testing new software that should streamline the takeoff and landing schedules of its larger airplanes and reduce idling time. Newly equipped forklifts can weigh freight instead of hauling goods to scales. (FedEx declined to comment before its earnings announcement.) UPS has asked pilots to taxi with one engine when possible, and it is experimenting with a type of landing during which engines are idle. The latter measure alone could save up to 70 gallons of fuel per flight. UPS trucks, about 60,000 of which are on the road every day, have begun using so-called telematics technology to track more than 200 pieces of data, including speed, oil pressure, and even the number of times a truck is put in reverse. That helped drivers reduce engine idling by 24 minutes per day, saving $188 per driver. Cutting fuel costs is one thing; building a finance business is another. UPS's Vukas figures loans will average around $150,000, and he anticipates one or two defaults for every 100 loans issued. "UPS does well with its cash flow, so they have some money they can use [for loans]," says Penn State's Coyle. "But it's a little risky in today's market." UPS has offered such financing to customers over the past decade, but much of the lending was government-backed. One of its trial customers is Pedors, a $2 million Marietta (Ga.) importer of orthopedic shoes. Along with shipping Pedors products from Chinese factories to U.S. warehouses, UPS pays the Chinese supplier up front for the goods. Pedors wires UPS half the cost of the shipment once the shoes leave China and has 60 days to pay the balance, with interest. Pedors Chief Executive John O'Hare says working with UPS has helped his firm expand its product line. "This service cuts out all the middlemen in international trade," he says. Prior to the UPS deal, O'Hare relied on a bank credit line secured by his personal assets. With UPS, the collateral is the shipment itself. Business Exchange related topics:Oil and GasMarket BottomRecession Spending and Investing

When Curis (CRIS) went public eight years ago, it symbolized the unbound optimism of biotechnology. Its stock rose fast, to 25, and it possessed promising technologies. Ever since, Curis has illustrated the risks of investing in biotech startups. There have been heartbreaking setbacks in clinical testing, failed partnerships with Wyeth (WYE) and Procter & Gamble (PG), and collaboration with Genentech (DNA) that has seemingly dragged on forever. Curis's stock has crashed, rebounded, and crashed again, hitting just 91¢ in November. But the tiny Cambridge (Mass.) biotech has hardly abandoned its dreams of producing blockbuster treatments for everything from colon cancer to neurological diseases. And if it succeeds, Curis could prove to be a valuable case study in the merits of research and development partnerships between the U.S. and China. For more than two years, Curis has been outsourcing sophisticated chemistry work to Shanghai ChemPartners, a fast-growing contract research organization in an industrial park in Shanghai's Pudong district. The 25 Chinese chemists assigned to Curis help the biotech work on problems around the clock. At $50,000 to $80,000 a year including benefits, they also cost around one-fifth less than U.S.-based scientists performing similar work. The low-cost Chinese help is pivotal to Curis' two-pronged strategy for success, says CEO Daniel P. Passeri. On the one hand, Curis has its continuing tie-up with Genentech to develop drugs targeting Hedgehog, a complex pathway of proteins and cells believed to influence growth of cancerous tumors in the stomach, pancreas, lungs, and other tissues (BusinessWeek.com, 5/16/05). The project finally is producing promising results. Genentech has reported that several cancer patients taking its Hedgehog drug in clinical trials have shown dramatic improvement. It has recently begun Phase II human trials involving 150 patients. If a commercial drug results, which would still be several years from now, Curis stands to receive hefty milestone payments and royalties if it results in a commercial drug that could be worth hundreds of millions of dollars. At the same time, Curis is trying to develop a broad portfolio of its own cancer drugs, the funding for which is mainly from payments from corporate partners such as P&G and Genentech. Rather than trying to discover new biological targets, Curis is developing single-dose drugs aimed at hitting a number of targets simultaneously. It says it believes it is the only company attacking both the surface and the nucleus of the cell. The goal is to make treatments that are easier to use, more affordable, and more effective not only in attacking cancer cells but also in keeping them from reappearing. That is where China comes in. These days, it can cost anywhere from $20 million to $100 million to develop a new drug in the U.S. from the time a promising compound is identified in a lab to the point where it is ready for clinical testing and, ultimately, to when it is lucratively licensed to a big pharmaceutical company. Every R&D program requires six to eight full-time chemists, each of whom can cost $350,000 a year in the U.S. including benefits, says Curis CFO Michael Gray. And even then, the odds the drug will ever win Food & Drug Administration approval are about 1 in 10. With such odds, venture capitalists have grown wary of fronting the money for early-stage discovery to small biotechs. For small companies with limited resources like Curis, that presents a dilemma. Most have to bet their resources on only one or two drug programs and try to rush them into clinical testing, rather than methodically spreading their risks by developing a range of candidates simultaneously. Given the high chances of failure, "it is tantamount to spinning a roulette wheel," says Passeri. "Curis is representative of what is happening in the sector." By using Chinese medicinal chemists costing so much less than Americans doing similar work, Curis can afford to have 10 drugs aimed at different kinds of cancer in early-stage development. To pull off its strategy, "we needed a dramatic buildup of our chemistry capabilities," says Passeri. "If we did all of this in the U.S., we probably wouldn't be in the business right now." This fall, it plans to begin human testing on its first single-pill drug, based on a molecule called CUDC-101. Curis says it had one advantage that made it relatively easy to work with a Chinese company: Its chief scientist, Qian Changgeng, as well as nearly half of its 30 researchers in Cambridge are native Chinese. Indeed, the company's labs in a small office park outside Cambridge might be confused with those of a Chinese company. During a recent visit after lunchtime, a table in the hallway was covered with foil containers of Chinese takeout. And much of the discussion in the labs was in Mandarin. That's not unusual, says Passeri. Chinese immigrant scientists are a mainstay in most U.S. labs. "Go to practically any other biotech, and you'll likely see the same thing," he says. After a two-week search in 2006, Curis settled on Shanghai ChemPartners, a unit of a larger company, privately held ShangPharma, with 1,200 scientists. Among its major Western clients are Eli Lilly (LLY). Curis also sent staff to Shanghai to train the Chinese chemists. "We really view their scientists as part of our team," says Passeri. While Curis' Cambridge team focuses on designing new compounds and on biology research, Shanghai Chem­Partners handles much of the chemistry. It synthesizes molecules based on Curis' designs, conducts a battery of tests, and sends the data over a shared Web site overnight to Cambridge. The next day, Curis scientists study the data and tweak their designs. Then the process starts over again in Shanghai. "This represents a new, transformational model of how to leverage resources in a cost-effective way and how to work across the Pacific," says ChemPartners CEO Michael Hui. So far, Passeri says the quality of work has been high. "And because we work around the clock, we've been able to accomplish in two years what would have taken us four years in the U.S.," he says. It is still far too early, of course, to predict whether Curis or any other small biotech will succeed. Curis has already weathered many setbacks. The company sprang from a 2000 merger between Onto­geny, which owned rights to the Hedgehog technology, and two other small companies. But the following year its chief product, a protein to induce bone growth in fractures that had been shaping up as a big money-maker, failed in testing after limited to approval to market the product in the U.S. and Europe. Curis then entered into a series of partnerships with larger corporations for treatments based on Hedgehog. In 2006, Genentech halted a trial of a topical cream to treat nonlethal skin cancer. The next year, P&Ge pulled out of potential cure for hair loss. And in March, Wyeth did the same with efforts to develop drugs for stroke and cardiovascular disease. Curis stock got a bump in January, after Genentech's news that its Hedgehog drug performed well in early human trials after it had already invested more than $100 million in the program. Now, Curis stock trades at around 1.70. CFO Gray says the company has $33 million in cash, enough to continue work on its propriety drugs at least through 2009. Curis also is exploring expanding its China outsourcing to include biology R&D, where the capabilities of mainland companies are improving fast. This may all sound threatening to Americans who fear another prized industry could shift offshore. But Passeri views it differently. "The U.S. still has a stranglehold on innovation in biotech. China is augmenting our capabilities," he says. "Companies that do this well will have a tremendous competitive advantage."

Editor's Rating: The Good: A stimulating response to the mortgage and credit mess and a demand for dramatic action from Washington The Bad: His proposals for reform are astute but sometimes sketchy The Bottom Line: A storehouse of valuable, provocative ideas 
The Subprime Solution:How Today's Global Financial Crisis Happened,and What to Do about ItBy Robert J. ShillerPrinceton; 196 pp.; $16.95
 The stock market is down sharply from its peak. Bank failures are rising. The federal government is taking extraordinary actions to shore up a beleaguered economy. In the midst of the crisis, a government official reflects: "We cannot stand by when a house is on fire to engage in lengthy debates.... In such a situation, we instinctively seize upon and utilize whatever method...offers assurance of speediest success." Quick: Is that Federal Reserve Board Chairman Ben Bernanke speaking before Congress? U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. on the bailout of mortgage giants Freddie Mac (FRE) and Fannie Mae (FNM)? No, it was Henry B. Steagall, chairman of the House Committee on Currency & Banking—in 1932. Quoting Steagall, economist Robert J. Shiller asserts that today's crisis requires remedies every bit as fundamental as those impelled by the Great Depression. In his new book, The Subprime Solution: How Today's Global Financial Crisis Happened, and What to Do about It, the Yale University professor sounds an alarm that the credit crunch, now early in its second year, poses a dire risk. His text is a stimulating, rapid response to current events—and a forceful demand for dramatic action from Washington, where, he says, the White House and Congress have been "totally inadequate" to the task. Generally accessible, although at times assuming too much economic expertise on the part of the reader, the book offers numerous proposals for avoiding future crises. These are provocative, but many are too sketchy. So, how did we get here? Like most other observers, Shiller puts the real estate boom and bust at the epicenter of his explanation, but the foibles of human psychology play an unusually large role in his scenario. Adapting the argument first offered in a previous book, Irrational Exuberance, the author notes that, over the past several decades, financial democracy spread until we all became investors. That made society ever more vulnerable to the mass psychology of bubblenomics. Rising real estate prices fed "new era stories" about how the old rules for valuation no longer applied; those tall tales drove prices even higher, and more yarns were spun justifying the upward spiral; eventually the irrational investment fever spread contagiously; and then, finally, the fever broke. Clearly, psychology matters, although this approach seems to neglect such economic fundamentals as demographics and interest rates. More persuasive is the author's adroit puncturing of the all-too-common notion that real estate prices inevitably go up over time. Along the way, he emphasizes a valid point that's too rarely made: "It is in no way bad news if home prices fall" so long as our incomes are rising. The time for society to be concerned is when prices drop rapidly, like now. Shiller calls for a bold bailout involving measures that range from creation of a new organization modeled after the 1933 Home Owners' Loan Corp. to the possibility of federal tax rebates for years to come. Although I remain skeptical, it's one of the best cases I've read for New Deal-scale short-term intervention by Washington. His approach to the long term is more persuasive—even if it's sometimes insufficiently detailed. Opposed to both heavy-handed regulation and misguided attempts to return to some simpler time, Shiller advocates tapping into modern technologies and information systems to advance the democratization of finance. Among his ideas: the creation of new insurance products for hedging against major personal finance risks, a financial products safety commission, and improved financial disclosure. Another particularly intriguing idea: federal subsidization of independent financial advice to make it available to everyone. This might take the form of a co-pay arrangement similar to Medicare and private health insurance. "We need both medical and financial advice on an ongoing basis, and failure to obtain either ultimately imposes costs on society when our health—medical or financial—suffers," Shiller writes. As with universal health care, it could be some time before our society adopts such measures. Nevertheless, a storehouse of valuable, provocative ideas awaits the reader of The Subprime Solution.

Most attempts at organizational change fail, according to the research of noted author John P. Kotter. Why should this be so? Kotter believes that if the sense of urgency is not high enough at the very beginning of any such project, complacency will win out. His new book, A Sense of Urgency, provides a guide for successful transformation. In this excerpt, Kotter describes the importance of an appeal that goes beyond the intellectual. I was present recently at a well-known company's annual top management meeting, where two division managers made speeches. Manager No. 1 walked to the podium, asked for the lights to go down, and began his speech. A new, information-rich PowerPoint slide appeared every 30 to 60 seconds. He looked at his notes about a third of the time, the slides another third, and what he could see of the audience in the dim room the final third. He was remarkably articulate. His speech described the problems that faced the company and, he said, all audience members. It offered a new set of goals and strategies for moving forward and a method for implementation. When the speaker was done, the lights went up and he answered questions for 30 minutes. The next morning manager No. 2 was noticeably more nervous in his presentation. He set aside his notes and stood beside the podium. Because the lights automatically went down, he was mostly in the dark along with the audience. He made a joke: "Kerry [the CFO] keeps telling us we are all in the dark, and I guess he may be right." Instead of moving behind the podium and into the spotlight, he asked that all the lights be turned up. He then talked for an hour employing few PowerPoint slides. Manager No. 2 was less articulate than Manager No. 1. He paused at times as if searching for the right words. In making a case for change much like the first speaker's, he used only a few statistics—about 10% as many numbers as in the first speech, but all of his data were attention-grabbing. For nearly half of the address, he told stories: about his father's company that had gone into bankruptcy, leaving his family in difficult circumstances; about a friend of his who worked at a competing firm and who recently, after a few too many drinks at the clubhouse, disclosed information about his company's very aggressive new strategies; about the speaker's great pride in working for his company when he was a young man, a time when the firm was No. 1 in all its markets; about how he and his wife had talked about early retirement but decided against it because he wanted to retire a winner—which, he said, he damned well planned on doing. He ended and received the longest applause heard at the entire meeting. Whether either man knew consciously what he was doing, I have no idea. But I do know that what each did, on the same stage, had a very different effect. Low lights signal to our senses that the workday may be over and it's time for sleep, making it hard for an audience to pay careful attention. When we stand behind a big wooden podium, it can feel as if there's a shield between us and the audience. PowerPoint slides so dense that they cannot be read in the last seven rows can annoy observers and raise irrational worries: Does the speaker not care whether I can see because he thinks I cannot understand the information anyway? Neurologists say that our brains are programmed much more for stories than for abstract ideas. Tales with a little drama are remembered far longer than any slide crammed with analytics. Personal stories also create a more intimate atmosphere—one that communicates the feeling that no one here intends to take advantage of anyone else. And the use of humor can reduce stress and encourage the audience to feel that the speaker understands them. We worry about appearing awkward in a presentation. But up to a point, most people seem to feel more comfortable with less-than-perfect speaking abilities. It makes the speaker more human—and more vulnerable, meaning he is less likely to attack our decisions or beliefs. Our rational minds tell us that none of these issues of presentation should matter. What is important is content: Is this a solid analysis and plan or not? But the best plan may raise little urgency in a company whose very successes have left it so complacent that most people are not looking for, and are not inclined to listen to, a new plan. Within the company in question, six months after the yearly meeting many people were moving with a new sense of urgency to deal with their considerable challenges. The second man's speech was only one of many actions that undercut a sleepy contentment with the status quo. But it was an important action. The sequence of events seems to have been as follows: First, an emotionally compelling speech was given at a very important meeting to a very important audience. Then urgency rose among many of those in the meeting, including the speaker's boss. The increased urgency was one factor in helping create a committed team to deal with the challenges. The team worked energetically with others to create a new, sensible vision and strategy, with the first speaker's ideas having a significant effect  at that point. The energized team spent hours carefully and cleverly communicating the strategies, visions, and plans with both their minds and their hearts—and onward from there. Great leaders understand that historical success tends to produce stable and inwardly focused organizations, and these outfits, in turn, reinforce a feeling of contentment with the status quo. Later failures to produce short-term results or to adapt to change can produce a great deal of activity—but this is often unproductive activity driven by anxiety about one's own future (not the organization's future) or by anger at others. In a competitive, fast-moving world, all this can be deadly. And none of it can be fixed by a mind-only strategy. The most successful "heart-head" approaches fall into four categories. In the first, people dramatically bring outside reality into groups that are too inwardly focused. They do not just collect data and dump it on individuals or massage valid information into goals and present them on PowerPoint slides, as the first speaker did. Instead, they create emotionally compelling experiences involving other people, information, and even the right kinds of business cases, as the second speaker did. Second, they behave with true urgency themselves. They do not just say the right words daily, but they make their deeds consistent with their words. Third, they look for the upside possibilities in crises, but very selectively and with great care. They do not view a crisis as only a threat but also as a potential opportunity to shake up an organization and reduce complacency. Fourth, they confront the problem of "No-Nos." They do not accept the notion that an organization must put up with people who relentlessly work to kill urgency. All four tactics can have an effect that is visceral, not merely intellectual, influencing attitudes, thoughts, feelings, hopes, dreams, and behavior. You can transform complacency with the status quo, or the anger and anxiety associated with a perceived mess, into a determination to move and win, now. Excerpted with permission from Harvard Business Press from A Sense of Urgency by John P. Kotter. Copyright © 2008 John P. Kotter. All Rights Reserved.

Ask anyone what proven wireless killer apps are, and they’ll tell you: voice and e-mail. Well, for years now, mobile e-mail has been the prerogative of the well-to-do: You had to buy a BlackBerry or another expensive smartphone and a costly data plan to use it. Well, that’s about to change. This week, I’d reviewed Peek, an inexpensive device soon to become available at Target that allows for mobile e-mail access for $20 a month. Now comes the news that European carrier 3 has started to offer mobile e-mail to its voice subscribers for about $3.60 a month. This price includes a little bit of Web surfing, too.

The cocktail chatter in a private room at Manhattan's Cornell Club turned to a hush as 40 pharmaceutical executives, investment bankers, and attorneys raised their wine glasses to Raymond Wu, who died on Feb. 10. The Cornell University geneticist helped pioneer drought-resistant rice. But to the Chinese-American businessmen in the room, Wu was also known for a program he founded in the 1980s that helped 425 of China's most brilliant students earn advanced biology degrees at elite U.S. schools. Today, 2,500 life sciences faculty at U.S. research universities are native Chinese, as are an estimated 10% to 20% of scientists in the labs of U.S. drug and biotech companies. "Ray Wu opened the door for countless Chinese students," said Pfizer's (PFE) Steve Yang, who offered the toast. Now this wave of imported brainpower is building bridges between the pharmaceutical industries of China and the U.S. The catalysts are returnees, known as "sea turtles," creatures celebrated in Chinese lore for their brave oceanic migrations. Just as previous waves of Taiwanese and Indian engineers blazed trails in Silicon Valley before building computer, chip, and software industries in their homelands, mainland returnees are setting up biotech startups, contract research companies, and university labs modeled after America's. Pharma consultant Zhu Shen, a 1988 emigré, reckons there are 70,000 Chinese life science professionals in the U.S. and dozens of immigrant-founded biotechs in San Diego alone. "Everyone I speak to wants to open up in China," she says. The sea turtles could transform the nature of pharmaceutical research. While India is ahead in building far-reaching partnerships with multinationals, China has a big edge in basic biology and is emerging as a power in discovery. Last year, Shanghai's Jiaotong University licensed a new process for improving patients' absorption of complex drugs to Switzerland's Roche, in a deal that could be worth millions. And in April, San Diego-based HUYA Bioscience won Food & Drug Administration approval to begin human tests of a cancer drug developed by a research institute in Beijing—a first for a Chinese government lab. Much of the Sino-U.S. activity is brokered through tight-knit networks. The most influential is BayHelix, organizer of the Cornell Club tribute for Wu. Membership in the seven-year-old group is by invitation only and limited to 300 top executives. They include Chinese execs at Pfizer, Merck (MRK), GlaxoSmithKline (GSK), Eli Lilly (LLY), and Novartis (NVS), as well as top venture capital and law firms. Half of its members are based in China, including sea turtles who founded research and development services companies such as Wuxi PharmaTech and Shanghai Genomics. The heavy Chinese presence in U.S. life sciences began in the 1970s, when tens of thousands of Chinese college grads streamed into fast-growing biotech programs in American universities. Yang went to Michigan Technology University in 1989 because of the cheap tuition and earned a PhD in pharmaceutical chemistry at the University of California, San Francisco before eventually landing at Pfizer. As head of Asia R&D, he now is setting up a network of collaborations. Today, opportunities in the mainland are luring those sea turtles back. Beijing's Tsinghua University, for example, recently snared alumnus Shi Yigong, a leading Princeton molecular biologist. After doctoral studies at Johns Hopkins and Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, he rose to full professor at Princeton in just four years, based on his research into the mechanism of cell death. Shi co-founded Tetralogic Pharmaceuticals in Malvern, Pa., in part to commercialize that work. Now he spends most of his time at Tsinghua University. "I feel I can use my talents better in China," Shi says. Academia isn't the main destination for sea turtles, however. "Now most come back because they want to get rich and do big things," says Michael Hui, CEO of ShangPharma, a drug R&D outsourcing firm. A chemist by training, Hui picked up an MBA from New York University and returned to his native Shanghai. In six years, ShangPharma has seen its staff grow from 5 to 1,300 and counts Eli Lilly among its 60 foreign clients. Some Chinese are joining mainland ventures because prospects in U.S. industry seem so dim now. Neurologist Charles Huang filed 10 patents and published 20 papers when he was a senior scientist with Neurocrine Biosciences in San Diego. Later he joined fast-growing Shanghai R&D outsourcing firm Sundia MediTech, also headed by Chinese veterans of U.S. industry. He calls the job picture in America "gloomy." What's more, Princeton's Shi warns that shamefully few Chinese scientists rise to the top of major U.S. companies or research programs, compared, say, with Indians or Europeans. "Unless the U.S. solves this glass ceiling problem, you will see a serious brain drain," he predicts. So far, China's talent gain has not been America's loss. Sea turtle ventures in China still work mainly for U.S. drugmakers. And with 9,000 Chinese students a year earning U.S. biology master's and doctoral degrees, more talent is arriving in the U.S. than is leaving. Chinese companies still don't have a critical mass of veteran scientists who can turn discoveries into products, says John V. Oyler, a former McKinsey consultant who heads Beijing-based contract research company BioDuro. "In five years, as much drug research will be done in Shanghai and Beijing as in Boston and San Francisco," he predicts. "But China's pharmaceutical industry will only be able to succeed by collaborating with the U.S."

TOKYO - It made headline news in Japan. On Sept. 1, Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda resigned after less than a year in office. One big issue: His government failed to fix the economy and rein in inflation. But for many ordinary Japanese, Fukuda's economic ideas are far less interesting than Yuki Wada's. The 35-year-old homemaker and blogger is what the Japanese call a setsuyaku no tatsujin, or master penny-pincher. She recycles bathwater to do her laundry and clean the toilets, tracks how much electricity each appliance uses, and keeps her energy bill low by cutting power to most of her Tokyo home when she goes out. She even saves tangerine peels to polish her shoes. As inflation in Japan surges, Wada and others like her have become minor stars. With gas running $7.15 a gallon and prices of everything from instant noodles to beer to soy sauce climbing, legions of ordinary Japanese have turned to Wada's blog for advice about tightening their purse strings. Inflation will add $70 a month to average household spending this year, estimates the Japan Research Institute, a private think tank—painful for families getting by on wages that haven't budged much recently. "For many housewives, trying to offset rising prices is like squeezing a dry cloth," says Wada. The bout of inflation has been a shock for a country that has spent the past decade grappling with deflation. In July core consumer prices were up 2.4% from a year earlier, the biggest jump since 1997, and many Japanese have clamped down on spending. Economists had been counting on inflation to lift corporate profits and property values—and get consumers to open their wallets. That's vital to growth, since private consumption accounts for more than half of gross domestic product. But the opposite has happened as shoppers must shell out more for the basics. "I drive less and ride my bike to supermarkets that are far away if they have lower prices," says Mari Yamaguchi, a 30-year-old homemaker in Tokyo. While Fukuda didn't say he was stepping down specifically because of Japan's sluggish economy, his government hasn't managed to kick-start growth. "Fukuda failed to send any message about reform," says Masaaki Kanno, chief economist at J.P. Morgan (JPM) in Tokyo. Some experts say Japan has already slipped into recession, and no one is predicting growth above 1% this year. To keep the economy afloat, Fukuda on Aug. 29 unveiled a $106 billion stimulus package of tax cuts for low-income households and loans for small and midsize businesses. But because of the massive deficit, only a fraction of the money is likely to materialize, and Fukuda's still-unnamed successor may be forced to revise the plan. Consumers, meanwhile, remain anxious about inflation—to the benefit of the likes of Wada. She has become a staple of TV talk shows, and she has lectured government staffers on eliminating wasteful spending. Her Web site attracted 180,000 unique visitors in June, up about 50% in the past year. It offers hundreds of tips such as cleaning the fridge to improve performance, putting a brick in the toilet tank to reduce the water used per flush, and polishing the floors with sour milk. "I tell people you shouldn't be thrifty just in response to rising prices," she says. "It should become a daily habit."

The following is a list of companies whose stocks may have unusual changes in Paris. Symbols are in parentheses after company names and prices are from the last close. September futures on France's CAC 40 Index sank 46 to 4,496 at 8:16 a.m. in Paris.

Google Inc.'s new Chrome Web browser, designed to crack Microsoft Corp.'s dominance in Internet-surfing software, is a nimble program whose potential makes up for its lack of polish, reviewers said. Available since yesterday, Chrome is a ``smart, innovative'' browser that's ``rough around the edges,'' the Wall Street Journal's Walter Mossberg wrote. David Pogue at the New York Times called Chrome ``a first-rate beginning.''

France's CAC 40 Index lost 47.49, or 1.1 percent, to 4,491.58 at 9:09 a.m. in Paris, retreating for the second time this week. The SBF 120 Index slipped 1.1 percent. The following shares rose or fell in Paris. Stock symbols are in parentheses.

As career choices go, the hotel business isn't one that will put new college grads on the path to riches. With few exceptions, new employees can expect an annual salary of less than $40,000, a figure that has barely budged in recent years. So when Marriott International (MAR) visited the University of Delaware campus on a recruiting trip, it didn't wave a big wad of cash in front of Claire Pignataro. It didn't have to. It had already hooked her with something she considered far more valuable: a chance to help run a hotel. A semester at the Courtyard by Marriott hotel, located on the Delaware campus, is required as part of the school's hospitality program. Pignataro, who was among the first students to work there, took part in virtually every aspect of opening the hotel, from developing marketing materials and designing weekend packages to even checking the legal mumbo jumbo posted in every hotel room. After graduating in 2005 and joining Marriott full-time, she entered a three-month management training program at a full-service hotel in Bridgewater, N.J., that put her through her paces again, including brief stints in the restaurant, food and beverage service, and front office. Knowing Pignataro wanted to be a wedding planner—and not wanting to lose her—Marriott gave her the next best thing: a permanent slot as an event planner at the Bridgewater property. "I was doing bar mitzvahs and weddings—all kinds of social and corporate meetings," says Pignataro, who is now in corporate sales. "You can do a lot of that within Marriott." For companies like Marriott that need to win the talent wars without breaking the bank, opportunities such as those offered to Pignataro are rapidly supplanting pay as a way of luring and keeping the best new college graduates in the corporate fold. While the economy has taken its toll on middle management, many companies are continuing to hire entry-level employees—in some cases at a blistering pace. Even those that are hiring fewer employees for entry-level jobs are competing more intensely for the very best. While traditional perks such as pensions and health insurance still have their place, more companies are finding inventive ways to attract, retain, and motivate their youngest employees—using everything from work-from-home programs to faster promotions to financial benefits that kick in a few years down the road. Says Adam Kling, a workplace consultant with RHR International: "They're using those and other perks to help offset what you're seeing in your monthly paycheck." Or more to the point, what you're not seeing in your monthly paycheck. No one recognizes the importance of perks more than Ernst & Young, where average salaries haven't increased substantially in at least three years. The Big Four firm still attracts more than 3,000 highly sought-after accounting students each year with extensive training and mentoring programs, performance bonuses, and the promise of face time with top executives—including an annual trip to Walt Disney World (DIS) for all U.S.-based interns, where they get to mingle with the powers that be. It's perks like that, along with a recruiting machine in overdrive and near-certain advancement to a supervisor-level position in just two years, that landed Ernst & Young atop BusinessWeek's third annual Best Places to Launch a Career ranking this year, unseating rival Deloitte. The ranking is based on three separate surveys: a BusinessWeek poll of career-services directors at U.S. colleges; a survey of 40,000 U.S. college students conducted by Universum USA, a Philadelphia research company; and a BusinessWeek poll of the employers themselves. With a greater number of qualified employers participating, we ranked 119 this year, up from 95 in 2007. (The complete list is available online.) The increased competition, along with shifts in sentiment among students and career-services directors, sent several newcomers, including No. 14 Target (TGT), No. 17 Boston Consulting Group, and No. 19 Anheuser-Busch, vaulting up the ranking, while several favorites from last year came off their pedestals. Microsoft (MSFT) slipped seven spots, to No. 13; Disney fell 20, to No. 27; and Accenture (ACN) dropped 39, to No. 47. While accounting firms again dominate the top of the list, owing to impressive perks and intense demand, one of the most surprising things about this year's ranking is just how well the investment banks fared. With five banks in the top 50, including Goldman Sachs at No. 4 and J.P. Morgan at No. 10, it was the industry's best showing since the inaugural ranking in 2006, perhaps in part because the surveys were conducted before the full extent of the turmoil on Wall Street had become apparent. High pay and an otherwise excellent reputation on campuses propelled four of the five banks—including beleaguered Lehman Brothers—higher up the ranking. However, for almost every industry, economic conditions today are far different from those that prevailed last year, when both hiring and salaries were on the rise. Overall, hiring was down 2% in 2007—more than 30 companies had cutbacks—and salaries advanced at a sluggish 2.8% pace, trailing inflation. Demand for accounting, computer sciences, and engineering majors created a few exceptions to the unfavorable salary picture, explaining why the accounting and tech companies fared as well as they did. But for the most part, 2007 was the worst year for the entry-level job market since 2003. Amid all the gloom, companies are seeking new ways to find and retain new college grads. For many, the effort starts with campus recruiting, a hugely expensive undertaking that, for companies with high turnover, often has a very poor return. To make the most of their recruiting efforts, many companies are scaling back their scope. In recent years, Philip Morris USA dropped nearly 50 campuses from its program, leaving it with just 34. Philip Morris President Craig A. Johnson says the quality of new hires is up as a result, and that more interns are being converted into full-time hires: 47% in 2007, up from 32% in 2005. PricewaterhouseCoopers pairs a targeted recruiting effort with a beefed-up Web presence that now accounts for 20% of its new hires. Jean Wyer, a PwC partner who was instrumental in developing the strategy, says students who find PwC through the Web site—as opposed to PwC finding them through on-campus recruiting events—have the kind of resourcefulness that results in successful accounting careers. "These are people who are paddling on their own," she says. One reason companies like Philip Morris and PricewaterhouseCoopers are succeeding in their recruiting efforts is they've done the math. Both companies focus their face-to-face recruiting efforts at schools that have traditionally yielded the most hires, employees with the strongest performance reviews, or those who have stayed with the company the longest, among other metrics. For Philip Morris, one such school is Penn State. As a result of its analysis, the company not only has increased the number of Penn State graduates it hires each year for the last three years but has also broadened its recruiting efforts on the school beyond sales jobs. A different state school in the Upper Midwest wasn't so lucky. The school, which Philip Morris would not identify, was recently cut from its recruiting roster when the company discerned that the number of interns from the school who were hired for full-time jobs was unsatisfactory. Says Ken Garcia, a company spokesman: "The numbers just didn't pan out." For many companies, though, the bigger problem—far bigger than recruiting—is retention. Overall, average five-year retention rates for employers that took part in both the 2007 and 2008 rankings began to slip this year, from 55.4% in 2007 to 52.8% in 2008. This was true for some companies in low-paying industries, including insurance and transportation, and industries with relatively high pay, both of which struggled to hold on to their youngest employees. While the accounting industry made modest improvements, companies in other industries took it on the chin: Abbott Laboratories (ABT) saw its five-year rate drop from 83% to 72%, and Intel's (INTC) fell from 71% to 58%. Claudia Tattanelli, CEO of Universum USA, says falling retention is a function of Generation Y's fearless attitude: "They're not going to stay in a job just because the economy is bad." Indeed, one reason high pay alone is no longer enough to guarantee loyalty is that many members of Gen Y, who have been entering the workforce since 2004, have other priorities. For them, issues such as community service and serving the greater good are among the most important, according to the 2008 Universum USA survey of U.S. undergraduates. That's an inversion of the baby boomer priorities, and particularly good news for nonprofit and government employers. Some of the federal government agencies in our ranking—including the State Dept. and NASA—mesh well with Gen Y priorities, which helps explain why their retention rates are high even though the pay is nothing special. And with more than 60% of the federal workforce eligible for retirement by 2016 (and 37% expected to actually depart), the opportunities for rapid career advancement—another Gen Y priority—are growing. At AmeriCorps, which each year sends an army of 75,000 to serve nonprofit groups in communities across the country, applications from young adults are up 69% in the last four years. David Eisner, the CEO of AmeriCorps' parent agency, the Corporation for National & Community Service, says AmeriCorps is the beneficiary of a generation intent on giving something back. "It's the kind of demographic shift you almost never see," says Eisner. But if you can't promise new college grads a chance to save the world—or a seat on the space shuttle—how do you get them to stick around? A growing number of employers are trying the carrot-and-stick approach. Some companies in recent years have restructured their 401(k) matches and vesting schedules to entice new employees to stay until the richer benefits kick in. Among them: Honeywell International (HON), American International Group (AIG), and Blue Cross Blue Shield, where three out of four entry-level hires leave within three years. The health insurer last year ditched its traditional pension plan and created a 401(k) match that starts at 3% and goes as high as 10%, based on age and years of service. To improve retention, Ernst & Young in 1999 began doubling its match after four years of service to 3%. Today, it boasts the best five-year retention among Big Four firms: 34%. Although that still leaves a lot to be desired, the savings in recruiting and training expenses are significant. Explains Mary A. Stringfield, E&Y's head of Americas benefits: "Retention was a key factor for designing that match formula." As incentives go, ballooning 401(k) benefits are a crude but effective way to keep employees tethered to the company. But for a generation that values flexibility, there's something even more valuable that employers can offer: no tether at all. About a year ago, BearingPoint (BE) started a program to permit employees to work from home full-time. Of the consulting company's total workforce of 16,000, some 800 employees ultimately took it up on the offer, including Jenny Fredrickson. Fresh out of college, the 24-year-old marketing analyst started in the company's Redwood (Calif.) office in January 2007 but joined the work-from-home program a year later to be near her family and boyfriend, and to buy a home 360 miles away in tiny Etna, Calif. (pop. 750). Today, she's part of a virtual marketing team with outposts in six states. It's lonely at times, but conference calls and the occasional real-world meeting with her teammates break up the monotony. "There's a lot of flexibility with where you can live," says Fredrickson. "That's one of the main reasons I joined the firm." It's too soon to determine the success of BearingPoint's work-from-home program. But Tom O'Connor, a senior BearingPoint manager who founded the program, says younger employees like Fredrickson find working remotely more desirable than boomers do, so there's real potential to increase their job satisfaction. "My son is a junior in college," O'Connor says. "The last thing he wants to do is sit in a cubicle all his life." Programs like BearingPoint's improve retention by making employees more satisfied with the day-to-day aspects of their jobs. But more targeted interventions are sometimes equally effective. By making a big impression when it matters most—in the first year of employment, when a lot of entry-level hires jump ship, or at the three-year mark, when boredom and frustration often set in—employers can get their young charges over the hump and, with luck, motivated to stay on for many more years. More than a dozen companies in this year's ranking did that with cold, hard cash, increasing the size of performance bonuses awarded to entry-level hires in their first year on the job. KPMG paid out an average of $4,300, up from $3,500 in 2007, and to a far larger group of employees—nearly 80% got the bonuses in 2007, up from 53% in 2006. At IBM (IBM), the average bonus more than doubled, to $3,500, from $1,500 in 2007, but fewer employees received them in their first year on the job: 83%, down from 92%. Laurie Friedman, an IBM spokesperson, says the company purposely raised the bar for awarding the bonuses to increase the amount and make a bigger impression. Says Friedman: "It's one of the ways IBM attracts the highest-quality applicants in today's competitive tech job market." Money is all well and good, but nothing says "stay for the long haul" like a promotion. So companies are experimenting with ways to accelerate the process. While many companies award promotions only when a vacancy exists, several, including Philip Morris USA, have shifted to a system that considers employees for new positions whenever they're ready—vacancy or not—thereby removing one of the biggest obstacles to promotion. And Whirlpool (WHR) is now giving employees a chance to fast-track their careers by offering them opportunities to work on special projects that will enhance their skills, thus making them eligible for promotions earlier. The projects can be anything from a 60-day stint with HR to six months spent designing a new appliance. The pilot program was started in July, but the company expects it to be popular with young employees and to improve retention, which is already the best among consumer products companies in our ranking. "The more opportunities we can provide our employees to engage in meaningful work and challenging assignments, the more quickly we can help them achieve career goals," says Jeff Beavers, Whirlpool's director of global university relations. The problem with providing all that meaningful work, however, is that too much can quickly lead to burnout—especially for a generation for whom work-life balance is a priority. This is a major concern in industries such as consulting, where long hours and nonstop travel can take their toll on new grads—driving as many as two-thirds to bolt inside of five years. To prevent that, Boston Consulting Group takes unusual precautions, monitoring employee hours through a formal early-warning system and sounding the alarm when hours approach the burnout zone. On her first assignment, a stint in Toronto, Allie Melnick averaged 75 hours a week over a three-week period. The 23-year-old associate showed no signs of distress—to hear her describe it, she barely broke a sweat—but the long hours alone triggered BCG's early-warning system. Her project leader pulled her aside to find out how she was handling the pressure, then BCG quickly reorganized the case team, adding staffers and redistributing the workload to give Melnick a break. BCG's response made a big impression on her. "If you're working hard, people notice it," says Melnick. "It was a good feeling." For many new college grads, however, nothing gets the juices flowing quite like a chance to speak truth to power. Mingling with top executives and having their ideas heard by senior managers is particularly important to Gen Y workers. So providing those opportunities is becoming a priority for many employers. Ernst & Young last year allowed interns aboard the corporate jet for some face time with the chief executive. Mark Kappelman, 24, an Arizona State accounting graduate who chose E&Y over the three other Big Four firms, said senior-level access is typical for new hires as well, and was one of the things that helped him handle all the duties he received in his first few months on the job. Says Kappelman: "It's a very uphill learning curve in the first year. They throw a lot of responsibility at you." Some companies have even begun taking on the role of surrogate parents to attract and retain a generation often criticized as being far too dependent on mom and dad. Many companies, including Cisco Systems (CSCO), Unilever, and Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, will now finance your move, help you pay for that laptop you can't afford, or even pick up the full tab for graduate school. Some go even further. IBM brings in financial coaches from Ayco and Fidelity Investments to advise young employees. Nearly half of IBM's U.S. workforce uses the program, tapping the coaches for advice on everything from 401(k)s to mortgages. Darien Davis, a financial analyst in IBM's software group, says his coach taught him how to manage his student loan payments and still save for retirement, bringing a new "level of discipline" to his financial life. That was kind of the point, says Karen Salinaro, an HR vice-president. "You're just out of school, and you're trying to figure out how to live on the salary you're making," Salinaro says. "These are tools to help you and give you one-on-one interaction, rather than asking your mom and dad." Perhaps the most unconventional method for holding on to the best entry-level talent is showing them the door—at least temporarily. A number of companies now offer employees a chance to work with nonprofits, a shot at saving the world without sacrificing their jobs. At Verizon Communications (VZ), dozens of employees, many of them Gen Yers, are dispatched to K-12 classrooms across the country each year to preach the benefits of studying engineering and computer sciences, disciplines that Verizon relies on to fill its talent pipeline. At Boston Consulting Group, employees with 18 months at the firm can spend up to a year working at a nonprofit. Employees receive two-thirds of their pay; BCG and the nonprofit split the bill. Albert Chu, 24, who is spending a year with Save the Children, says BCG's philanthropic bent was a big reason he joined the firm after graduating from Duke in 2005—and a big reason he hopes to remain there for years to come. That's a long way from his original plan, which involved using consulting as a more immediate springboard into the nonprofit world. "I had always been looking at this as a short-term thing," says Chu, echoing a common sentiment among new college grads. Not anymore.

The economy's buoyancy in the first half of 2008 has been remarkable. Earlier this year, the thought that growth could average 2.1% annually would have seemed out of touch with the realities of financial market stress, tighter borrowing conditions, falling home values, and shrinking payrolls. Nevertheless, after posting a 0.9% advance in the first quarter, the economy charged ahead at a 3.3% clip in the second quarter, a steep upward revision from the government's original estimate of 1.9%. No, all this does not mean it's O.K. to breathe easier. Staying afloat in the second half is going to be a much more difficult challenge. First, the lift from foreign trade, accounting for more than 90% of first-half growth, will be much smaller. Growth in Britain ground to a halt last quarter, the euro zone contracted, as did Japan, and growth elsewhere has slowed a notch. More troubling, outside of foreign trade, the domestic economy shrank in the fourth quarter, stayed almost flat for the next two, and is set to weaken further. The focus in the second half will be on consumers and jobs. Households contributed modestly to overall growth in the first half, as real (or inflation-adjusted) purchases rose 0.9% and 1.7% annually in the first and second quarters, respectively. But spending is getting off to an ominously poor start in the third quarter. Monthly declines in both June and July already have put outlays in a deep hole. It would take sizable gains in both August and September to prevent real consumer spending from recording its first quarterly decline since 1991. Through July, consumers' biggest problem was rising gasoline prices. Despite job losses, the labor markets and the tax rebates gave households enough income to increase their spending at a hefty 6.8% annual rate in the three months through July, up sharply from 3.8% in the previous three months. But that's before accounting for rising prices. From April to July, 56% of the increase in spending went to buy gas and other energy. After taking inflation into account, that 6.8% jump turns into a 0.7% drop. In the second half, falling gas prices, which by late August were  10% below their July peak, will help to restore some lost buying power. Still, it will take an additional 15% drop to get pump prices back to where they were earlier this year, and by the fourth quarter the spending boost from the tax rebates will be but a memory. The new problem is income growth. The strong-looking numbers on the overall economy belie progressively slower income gains for both households and businesses. The government revised down its earlier estimates of wage-and-salary income in the first half, and it reported a fourth consecutive quarterly drop in corporate profits. So far this year, income growth from wages and salaries has slowed to 2.9% annually, from 4.5% during 2007. Even excluding energy, consumer prices are rising faster than that. The pay slowdown reflects losses in jobs and hours worked, which may well intensify in the second half. That's because businesses are feeling the pressure from the weak domestic economy. The drop in profits reflects not only sagging demand but declining margins. For nonfinancial companies, the profit from each unit of output is falling sharply. Companies are getting hit with the increasing cost of energy and other materials, many of which are imports whose prices are rising rapidly. This squeeze is likely to crimp both capital spending and consumer demand, as companies try to limit the damage to profitability by postponing projects and cutting more jobs. So far, as strong productivity has helped businesses cope with weak demand and rising costs, consumers have not suffered as badly as in past recessions, when job and income losses were much more severe. The danger in the second half is that companies will step up their cost-cutting, further undermining consumer spending and overall economic growth.

Viacom Inc.'s Paramount Pictures agreed to acquire Screenlife LLC, the closely held creator of the ``Scene It?'' video-game franchise. Terms of the purchase weren't disclosed. Screenlife is expected to remain a stand-alone entity operating in Seattle, Los Angeles-based Paramount said today in an e-mailed statement.

The following companies may have unusual price changes in Italian trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses and share prices are from the previous close. Italy's S&P/MIB Index rose 433, or 1.5 percent, to 29,208 in Milan. Futures expiring in December added 411, or 1.4 percent, to 29,371.

Laboratorios Almirall SA and Forest Laboratories Inc. plunged the most in more than a year of trading after studies questioned the benefits of their experimental drug for a common lung disease linked to smoking. Almirall fell 6.3 euros, or 42 percent, to 8.7 euros at the close of trading in Madrid, the biggest decline since the company's June 2007 public offering. Forest dropped $5.19, or 14 percent, to $31.08 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the largest drop since Aug. 9, 2000.

With accounting grads in demand at Big Four firms, Ernst & Young's interest in Stephanie Goldberg, an accounting major at Pennsylvania State University, was no surprise. She just didn't expect it to come so soon. This spring, she took part in a pre-internship development program, where she was plucked from among the 1,000-plus participants to attend a gratis three-day seminar at Miami University of Ohio for "high-potential" talent. The surprise? When Goldberg first came to E&Ys attention she was a sophomore who hadn't applied for an internship, much less a full-time job. Companies such as Ernst & Young, Deloitte, and Marriott International (MAR), whose futures ride on their ability to attract and retain the Stephanie Goldbergs of the world, are rapidly redefining the fast track. Once, up-and-comers were separated from the herd in the first few years on the job. Now the handpicking begins much earlier—in some cases long before they have the job—followed by an accelerated career path that can take them from newbie to boss in almost no time. In part, the new fast track is a retention tool, but it's also a way to identify and develop leaders for companies facing an exodus of boomer veterans. According to Development Dimensions International (DDI), a global HR consultant, nearly 40% of North American employers now have programs to accelerate the careers of high-potentials. "It's like gymnastics," says DDI Vice-President Matt Paese. "At the age of four, scouts aren't looking for strength and speed but psychological and mental toughness and curiosity." For those whizzes, the new approach provides an opportunity to land an important job at an early age. At the three-day seminar she attended, Goldberg got to hobnob with corporate recruiters and executives while taking part in role-playing exercises and case studies. "It was a really good opportunity to apply everything from school," says Goldberg. "It was an awesome time." At rival Deloitte, a program launched in 2003 identifies high potentials for a four-day national leadership conference. In 2007, 470 students—some as young as 19—took part in team-building and networking activities with Deloitte brass. The best get internship or job offers and become senior consultants or auditors in two years. The jury is still out on how effective the new fast-track programs are for companies. Since most are brand new, nobody knows if the individuals singled out for special treatment will ultimately end up in the executive ranks or if the programs will trigger a backlash, increasing resentment, disengagement, and turnover among employees not chosen. Marriott, which holds a leadership summit for top interns each summer, doesn't publicly identify high potentials once they're hired for just this reason. "I don't think it does a whole lot of good," says David A. Rodriguez, executive vice-president of global human resources. Even companies that still develop talent the old-fashioned way—waiting a few years before crowning the next generation of leaders—are making special efforts to identify and nurture their stars. At Philips Electronics (PHG), top performers with at least three years at the company are identified by their managers, then shuttled off to an evaluation center for an appraisal of their skills and an exploration of career opportunities. For the chosen few, there are frequent lunches with CEO Gerard Kleisterlee, even an internal newsletter with updates on their career progress. "Whenever I travel, there are three things on my agenda," he says. "Meeting with local management, seeing a customer, and having lunch with young high potentials."

The following is a list of companies whose stocks may have unusual changes in Paris. Symbols are in parentheses after company names and prices are from the last close. France's CAC 40 Index climbed 66.94, or 1.5 percent, to 4,539.07 in Paris, its highest level since June 19. The SBF 120 Index also increased 1.5 percent.

Two former Credit Suisse Group AG brokers were charged with violating securities laws by fraudulently selling corporate clients subprime mortgages linked to auction-rate securities. Julian Tzolov, 35, and Eric Butler, 36, falsely told clients the products were backed by federally guaranteed student loans and were a safe alternative to bank deposits or money market funds, said Robert Nardoza, a spokesman for Brooklyn U.S. Attorney Benton Campbell. The scheme ``foisted more than $1 billion in subprime-related securities'' upon customers, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said today.

With the Presidential tickets punched for both parties, the battle for the White House is now in full swing. So exactly what do John McCain and Barack Obama have planned on the economic front? Tune in for details and analysis on both platforms. What are the best companies for young college grads now entering the job market? We take an inside look at the top performers in this year's BusinessWeek ranking of employers and break down what it takes to be named No. 1. Microlending has succeeded in helping many entrepreneurs and farmers in the developing world. Given the increasing difficulty small businesses now face in getting loans in the U.S., we look at domestic microlending and whether it can work on a larger scale. Watch our weekly program, BusinessWeek TV. To see video clips or find your local station and airtime by Zip Code, go to businessweektv.com.

In the latest example of the waning financial leadership of the U.S., the Securities & Exchange Commission wants to dump the country's complex accounting rules in favor of a simpler set of international principles. It's a major step toward a single worldwide standard—a necessity for creating seamless global markets. But adopting the model, which is relatively new and untested, has its own pitfalls. Junking the U.S. rules, known as generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, would have seemed preposterous a decade ago. Back then investors and companies, both in the U.S. and worldwide, viewed GAAP as the gold standard, a transparent system for reporting earnings and other financials. As more European and Asian companies rolled out results in the American style as well as their own, it seemed GAAP would be the top choice among bean counters in an increasingly global marketplace. But GAAP has gotten so unwieldy that it has all but collapsed under its own weight. According to accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers, the U.S. principles span 25,000 pages, compared with 2,500 pages of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), the ones the SEC is promoting. Navigating that maze, say critics, is costly and confusing. "We've got something that's suited to a different era, that's not global," says Robert H. Herz, chairman of the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the body that oversees GAAP. "I believe it's better to create something new than to patch up something old and outdated." Assuming certain improvements are made to the international standards, U.S. public companies would switch over by 2016. The change, which some large outfits could make as early as 2010, would create a common accounting regime, ideally allowing investors to compare a Silicon Valley technology company with one in Germany or Japan. Companies also could better analyze cross-border acquisition opportunities, says William T. Keevan, a forensic accountant and director at consultant SRA International and at for-profit school DeVry. And it would be a boon for accounting firms, which will guide companies through the new system—not unlike the frenzy of activity for technology firms leading up to Y2K.  "One of the more revolutionary developments in the world's capital markets is the quickening pace of acceptance of a true lingua franca for accounting," SEC Chairman Christopher Cox said in late August. But even if companies are speaking the same language, their financial stories may be decidedly different from each other. That's because, compared with GAAP's detailed requirements, the international principles tend to be broad, giving companies wiggle room. GAAP, for example, contains more than 200 rules for recording revenue, while IFRS only has a couple of requirements. "Basically, you can do almost anything you want," says Herz. In the end, that can lead to wide variances in profit reporting. A study by Jack T. Ciesielski of The Analyst's Accounting Observer found that, among the 137 companies reporting 2006 results under both GAAP and IFRS, 63% showed higher earnings with the international standards. For the median company, profits jumped by 11%. Even under one system, enforcement and cultural interpretations of the international rules can vary by country. For instance, although British companies rarely employ off-balance-sheet entities, the vehicles crop up elsewhere in Europe. And an estimated 29 countries that use IFRS have added their own exceptions to the rules, defeating the purpose of a global standard. "We may get something that people think is uniform but is not," says Lawrence A. Cunningham, a law professor at George Washington University. "There is a real risk of a veneer of comparability that hides a lot of differences."

Theolia SA, the French wind-power company part-owned by General Electric Co., fell after reporting a first-half loss on higher costs and cutting a target for full-year operating profit. Theolia, based in Aix-en-Provence, fell 25 cents, or 1.8 percent, to 13.80 euros in Paris trading, its lowest close since January. The net loss was 25.3 million euros ($36.6 million), compared with a profit of 6.2 million euros a year earlier.

Japan's Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 80.12, or 0.6 percent, to 12,689.59 as of the close in Tokyo. The following were among the most active shares in the Japanese market today. Stock symbols are in parentheses after company names. Machinery makers: Komatsu Ltd. (6301 JT), Okuma Corp. (6103 JT), Makino Milling Machine Co. (6135 JT) and Mori Seiki Co. (6141 JO) were lowered to ``market perform'' from ``outperform'' by Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Co. Also, Japaninvest Co. initiated coverage of Komatsu, with a ``sell'' rating.

The U.S. Justice Department is investigating whether Stryker Corp., the third-largest maker of artificial hips and knees, illegally paid surgeons to induce them to use company products, according to a court filing. Government lawyers disclosed the scope of the investigation in a lawsuit last week against Stryker. The company signed a non-prosecution agreement last September after cooperating in a separate U.S. probe of whether it paid kickbacks to surgeons who used its products. Prosecutors deferred criminal charges against four Stryker competitors that agreed to pay $310 million.

The following companies are having unusual price changes in Brazil trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are as of 9:35 a.m. New York time. Preferred shares are usually the most-traded class of stock. The Bovespa index rose 0.1 percent to 54,461.60.

HONG KONG - Chinese e-commerce company Alibaba.com, flagship of Hangzhou's Alibaba Group, runs a business-to-business service for small-to-midsize importers and exporters. Since a November IPO, the shares have fallen over 60% amid worries about China's weakening exports and rising labor costs. CEO Jack Ma even said recently Alibaba needs to prepare for "winter." Yet on Aug. 28, Alibaba surprised investors with a 136% jump in second-quarter earnings, to $102 million. "During downturns, stronger leaders such as Alibaba tend to seize market share at the expense of weaker rivals," notes Morgan Stanley (MS) analyst Richard W. Ji. Alibaba ranks No. 3 on this year's list of the Asia BW 50. Although many on the list have seen their stocks take a beating, almost all still have robust sales, good margins, and strong market positions. The rankings, compiled by Standard & Poor's Compustat, are based on average return on capital and sales growth over the past three years. Trends to note: infrastructure plays in India, the surprising presence of Pakistani blue chips, and the resilience of Taiwanese tech. For more on the BW 50 methodology and on how these companies perform, see businessweek.com/globalbiz/asia. Business Exchange related topics:eCommerceChina BusinessImports & Exports

Neel Uberoi, a dentist from south London, stands trial today for insider trading as the U.K. financial regulator pursues a tougher line on market abuse. Uberoi and a relative, Matthew Uberoi, are charged with 17 counts of insider trading by London police, according to an indictment filed at the City of Westminster Magistrates Court. His trial is one of three criminal cases the Financial Services Authority has brought this year. Defendants include two retirees and a former general counsel at TTP Communications Plc.

Uranium Resources Inc. is sitting on as much as $7 billion worth of the radioactive mineral and may become a takeover target after the shares plunged 83 percent this year, along with the fuel's price. The Lewisville, Texas-based company has proven uranium reserves in the state of about 800,000 pounds, plus an estimated

Billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian's Tracinda Corp. settled U.S. regulatory claims that the company misleadingly suggested it might increase a stake in General Motors Corp. in 2006 while looking to sell the stock. Tracinda wasn't fined and resolved the Securities and Exchange Commission's civil complaint by pledging to refrain from similar misconduct, the agency said today. The Beverly Hills, California-based firm broke securities rules while disclosing the sale of 14 million shares, saying publicly it might buy more stock after privately approaching a brokerage to propose a larger sale two days earlier, the SEC said.

Most of us lazed away the final moments of August and Labor Day weekend in a blissful, if temporary, reprieve from the working week. But sleep-deprived minions operating in relative obscurity were glued to computer monitors and racing to beat deadlines. They were readying this fall's bumper crop of significant new Web-only content plays from established names in Old and New Media. Among them: AOL (TWX) is putting finishing touches on a major new site for young women that's slated to launch in late September, possibly under the name LemonDrop. Turner Networks is beta-testing a young women's site called TheFrisky. It's one of several sites an incubator group within the Time Warner cable programmer is developing for this audience and may not be the only new Turner site to hit the Web this year. Hearst Magazines' digital unit is working with Microsoft's (MSFT) MSN on delish.com, a food site that will cover local food festivals and the goings-on of Top Chef as much as it dishes out recipes and cooking tips. News Corp.'s (NWS) MySpace is at work on a major women's site as well, although an executive familiar with the pioneering social network's plans said a debut is unlikely until early next year. A MySpace spokeswoman declined to comment on any aspect of the company's plans for such a site. There's already been chatter about former New Yorker editor Tina Brown's The Daily Beast, a news-related site she will launch with the backing of Barry Diller's IAC (IACI). It appears that The Daily Beast will combine editors' choices on the best of the Web with magazine-style articles. Another former magazine type who is chucking print for online is Keith Blanchard, the editor who oversaw Maxim's growth spurt. Blanchard's venture is not affiliated with any media company, he says, but has secured financial backing for The Daily Lowdown, which he described, without any other elaboration, as an aggregation site aimed at men. "Magazine editorial ideas are still good," says Blanchard, in explaining his shift from print. "But they run faster on a Pentium." Almost all of the preceding ventures (sole exception: The Daily Beast) opt for the softer end of the subject spectrum and will shy away from, say, news and business. Simple realities dictate this. Ambitious news sites require lots of bodies; lighter sites are much cheaper to launch. The beauty of the model favored by virtually all of the Web startups listed above—heavy linking to other sites' content and using freelance contributors rather than staff—is that it can pull in millions of visitors with minimal staffing. LemonDrop, should it be called that, will be modeled on Asylum, an AOL site for young men. Asylum launched last December, drew over 3.3 million unique users in July and now ranks No. 6 on comScore's rankings of top U.S. entertainment sites. It hit the Web with a full-time editorial staff of two, which has since swelled to all of five, says Bill Wilson, AOL's executive vice-president for programming. And the landscape for lighter-themed sites is much more fluid than that for news and business. The latter categories are dominated by longstanding players, be they Yahoo! (YHOO) Finance or Drudge Report. But men's, women's, and entertainment sites are filled with newer players. (Think AOL's TMZ.com.) Even more recent entrants—one of them is Holy Taco, a men's site owned by Break Media—are building traffic at rates that could soon land them in their category's top tier. This is partly because, unlike established outlets in news and business, the dominant players in those niches have been slow to stake strong claims online. One example: The Web site for Hearst's top-selling women's mag Cosmopolitan does not appear among the top 15 women's sites, a problem one Hearst executive attributes to the company's not having gotten full control of the site from former Web partner iVillage until May, 2007. What's launching online may also, for good or ill, say something about what information we collectively seek on the Web. But then we've long opted for sizzle over substance elsewhere.

Brazilian stocks fell to the lowest in two weeks, led by energy and metal producers, after oil prices dropped and Citigroup Inc. said the slump for commodity shares may worsen. Petroleo Brasileiro SA and Cia. Vale do Rio Doce, the two biggest stocks on the Bovespa index, slid as oil prices declined for a fourth day and Citigroup strategist Tobias Levkovich said it's still too early to buy energy, materials, capital goods and industrial producers. Gerdau SA led a retreat for steelmakers after ArcelorMittal, the world's largest producer, cut prices in South Africa.

K+S AG, Europe's biggest producer of potash used in fertilizers, will replace TUI AG, owner of Europe's largest travel business, in Germany's benchmark DAX Index, Deutsche Boerse AG said. The operator of the Frankfurt exchange also said that Deutz AG will drop out of the MDAX Index, which includes 50 stocks that rank below the DAX. It will be replaced by Bauer AG. TUI will also join the MDAX, Deutsche Boerse said in an e-mailed statement today.

DSG International Plc, the U.K.'s largest consumer electronics retailer, said first-quarter sales fell 7 percent and predicted no quick recovery to a decline in consumer spending across Europe. Revenue at the U.K. PC World stores open at least one year dropped 12 percent in the 16 weeks ended Aug. 23, Hemel Hempstead, England-based DSG said in a statement today, without giving numbers. Southern European sales fell 12 percent on that basis. Total revenue gained 4 percent.

European Union regulators proposed cutting mobile phone text-messaging fees charged when customers travel abroad by more than 60 percent, a move that may reduce revenue for Vodafone Group Plc and Telefonica SA. The European Commission in Brussels will propose that the retail charges for texts, also known as short message services, should be capped at 11 euro cents ($0.16), down from an average price of 29 euro cents in the 27-member EU, according to a document obtained by Bloomberg News. Wholesale charges will be capped at 4 cents, the document said.

Platts oil pricing service, whose Dated Brent assessment is used to price two-thirds of the world's crude, may change the quality requirements for cargoes used of the benchmark grade within four weeks. Platts, a unit of New York-based McGraw-Hill Cos., may cut the compensation sellers of North Sea Forties crude cargoes must pay when the oil has an abnormally high level of sulfur, Jorge Montepeque, Platts's global director of market pricing, said at a conference in Geneva today.

For young men and women graduating from college, choosing a post-graduation employer is both exciting and perilous—never more so than when economic turmoil raises the stakes considerably. In such an environment, information matters, and this year's Best Places to Launch a Career ranking provides information in spades. A few things have changed since our 2007 ranking, including the addition of 24 new employers. One thing that hasn't changed, though, is our basic methodology. While we made a few tweaks this year, it's still a three-part test designed to ferret out the best employers for new college graduates. To narrow the field, we turn first to the nation's career-services directors. In February we conducted a nationwide survey of directors at top colleges and universities, public and private, in every academic discipline. The survey asked the directors to identify the top five employers for entry-level workers in 17 industries, and the top 20 top employers overall. Of the 263 directors surveyed, 60 replied, for a response rate of 23%. Using the survey data on individual industries, BusinessWeek compiled a list of nearly 174 companies, nonprofits, and government agencies that were eligible for the final ranking. This was a two-step process. The first step involved identifying the five high scorers in each industry. For every career-services director who ranked a company No. 1 in its industry, the company received five points. Every No. 2 ranking was worth four points, every No. 3 ranking was worth three points, and so on. After tallying the points, including ties, we had a total of 83 companies, due to an inadequate number of employers in two industries, Internet and hospitality. To flesh out the list, we reviewed the remaining companies suggested by the career-services directors and identified those with the highest industry point totals among all the industries. That added an additional 91 employers to the list, for a total of 174. Next, we invited each employer to answer an extensive survey seeking information on hiring, pay, benefits, training programs, and retention. Of the 174 organizations, 119 completed the survey, for a response rate of 68%. We then compared the employers' responses to each question with the responses of others in its industry. For each ranking question on the survey, the best response, such as the highest pay or retention rate, was awarded 10 points. The worst response, or no response at all, received no points. Responses that fell in the middle of the pack were worth five points each. To complete the ranking, we combined the results of the employer survey with two additional pieces of data. From the survey of career-services directors, we tallied the points for each respondent's overall ranking of employers—20 points for each No. 1 ranking, 19 points for each No. 2 ranking, and so on. From Universum Communications, a Philadelphia research firm that surveyed more than 40,000 U.S. undergrads this year, we received the percentage of students who listed each employer among the five for whom they would most like to work. The employer survey contributes 50% of the final ranking, while the career-services survey and the student survey contribute 25% each. If no career-services director included an employer among the top 20 overall, or if no students included it among their top five, such employers forfeited the 25% associated with that survey. If data from both surveys were unavailable, the employer was placed at the bottom of the ranking, with its place determined solely by the employer survey. This year, 57 employers had data from all three surveys, 50 had data from two, and 12 were ranked based on their employer survey alone. Several factors, including the addition of 24 new employers to the ranking, helped create a great deal of volatility this year, with about half of the employers who returned from last year's ranking making big swings either up or down in the ranking this year. In many cases this was the result of employers doing better or worse on the student or career-services surveys. Marriott, for example, shot from No. 45 to No. 7 in part because it fared far better with students than it did last year. Since new competitors in an industry sometimes fare better on one or more surveys than existing employers, their presence is often enough to shake up the ranking. The retailing segment, for example, doubled in size with the addition of Sears, Abercrombie & Fitch, and Target, which almost single-handedly knocked Walgreens, Macy's, and Kohl's down 17, 31, and 47 spots, respectively. This year, BusinessWeek made several minor modifications to its methodology. First, we added several new questions to the employer survey and eliminated others. We added a new industry category—media and entertainment—to accommodate new companies that participated for the first time this year, and shifted one company, Walt Disney, into the new category from hospitality. We also changed how we scored the employer surveys in the nonprofit/government category. Instead of eliminating many questions because they did not apply to both nonprofits like the Peace Corps and government agencies such as the IRS, we counted every question. This is why the Peace Corps fared far worse this year than it did last year. Finally, we made a slight change in the way we scored the employer surveys from each industry. In the first two years of the ranking, we used a complex set of rules to determine how many points to award to each company for each question based on their responses. Last year, we awarded 10 points for the best answer—the highest pay, for example—and no points for the worst, with all others receiving 5 points. We considered no answer at all to be the worst answer for scoring purposes, so if a company did not answer a question, it received no points, the best answer continued to receive 10 points, and all others received 5. There were several exceptions to this general rule—mainly concerning follow-up questions—that made the scoring process needlessly complex. This year, to reduce the complexity and the possibility for error, we awarded no points to employers who declined to answer the question and to employers whose answer was the worst among those that did answer the question. So, for example, if four companies responded to our question about the maximum 401(k) match—with answers of 8%, 8%, 2%, and NA—both the 2% answer and the NA answer received no points for that question. While some companies lost points on individual questions as a result of the change, our back-testing showed it had very little effect on their overall performance in the employer survey, or on the ranking as a whole. And since all employers in all industries were treated the same way, the change did not confer a benefit to anyone. Business Exchange related topics:Employee RelocationEmployee RecruitmentExecutive Search

Mobile operator O2 has announced the results of a six-month mobile wallet trial in London—and, despite claims consumers are enamoured of having contactless travel capabilities embedded in their phone, an imminent wallet rollout isn't looking likely. The mobile travelcard/wallet trial was announced back in November 2007, with O2 partnering with AEG, Barclaycard, Nokia, Transport for London, TranSys and Visa Europe to trial a Nokia handset that included an Oyster application for travel around London. The NFC-enabled handset allowed users to pay for their journey by swiping their phone over a reader in the same way they would a travelcard, as well as pay for small purchases in shops.

Raymond Baer, the chairman of Julius Baer Holding AG, stands in front of a messy orange squiggle of spray paint on acrylic, an artwork by Renee Levi that hangs in a hall of the bank's office on Zurich's Bahnhofstrasse. ``My strategy map,'' smiles 49-year-old Baer, who is the great-grandson of the bank's founder, Julius Baer. He is joking, yet the work does reflect his bank's strategy in one respect at least. Switzerland's biggest independent money manager has one of the largest collections of Swiss contemporary art, with about 4,500 works adorning the walls of Julius Baer branches worldwide. Some are currently on show at Art Masters St. Moritz, a new arts festival that runs from Aug. 29 to Sept. 7. With new offices in Moscow, Abu Dhabi and Asia as well as expansion in Germany and Switzerland, the bank has plenty of blank walls to fill. A committee of employees, assisted by an expert outside adviser and Julius Baer's full-time curator Christian Zingg, selects works to purchase at art fairs and galleries. There is no set annual budget, Baer says, though the yearly art expenditure is ``not in the millions.'' The committee has an upper limit per artwork of about 10,000 Swiss francs ($9,000). ``That is a rather modest amount in today's crazy art  world,'' Baer says. ``That forces our people to go into very young art, to go sometimes into the art schools. We don't allow them the luxury of buying very established artists.'' Family Collection The Baer family started collecting art in the 1930s, when Julius Baer was still a ``very small private bank,'' Baer says. As both bank and collection grew, ``there was a need to have a corporate focus,'' he says. The selection committee was founded in 1981 and decided to focus on Swiss contemporary art. Though Julius Baer has never spent a fortune on an individual art work, many have gained considerably in value. Zingg points out a Rist Pipilotti gold sequined purse in the bank's foyer, containing a crystal ball that shows a dreamlike video sequence. Zingg estimates it is now worth about 100,000 Swiss francs. The bank also owns abstracts by the renowned Swiss artist John Armleder. An Armleder mirror glass fetched $186,000 at a Phillips de Pury & Company auction in London in February, according to Artnet.com prices. ``The art committee members should be applauded for ensuring that in all periods, they have collected all the important artists,'' Baer says. ``We didn't miss any important movements.'' St. Moritz Branch Julius Baer's decision to exhibit at Art Masters St. Moritz was in part connected to the opening of a new branch in the chic ski resort planned for December. The bank is a sponsor of the festival and funded a concert by the Mariinsky Orchestra, conducted by Valery Gergiev, on Sept. 1. ``There are a whole new set of potential clients who are spending their summers in the mountains and they are culturally interested,'' Baer says. ``I have known St. Moritz for many decades, and I was always amazed that St. Moritz wasn't doing more to promote the arts.'' The bank's St. Moritz branch-to-be makes an ideal gallery with no furniture and a view of the mountains and the lake, a deep blue in the late summer sun. It shows an intriguing selection of works, mostly by little-known Swiss artists. A computer monitor at the entrance welcomes you into the digital world of Monica Studer & Christoph van den Berg, who created a fictional Alpine landscape. You can wander for hours through their mountain meadows by moving a computer trackball, and never meet exactly the same flower or rock twice. It's something for those stuck in city offices, pining for the hills. Digital Terrace A digital print of an imaginary terrace overlooking lakes and mountains is also on show, taken from the duo's quirky Web site. The site features a fictional hotel, that in the words of the artists, is ``built in the style of a rundown sporting hotel of the sixties.'' For those who prefer an urban landscape, Bessie Nager's equally fictional ``Pelleport'' (2006), printed on metallic paper, is a kaleidoscope of virtual architecture in neon colors at different levels and depths. It evokes the confusing portals, gateways and platforms of cyberspace. For Baer, the bank's art collection is a ``passion,'' not an investment, and he wants to keep it that way. Unlike its competitors Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG, Julius Baer has no art-investing department in its wealth-management division. ``We have a business decision not to be art advisers and we also don't lend money against art,'' Baer says. ``Art is art, and the art of money management is something else.'' (Catherine Hickley is a writer for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)

General Motors (GM) did its usual cheerleading when August auto sales were reported on Sept. 3, but it was impossible to ignore the fact that its "Employee Discount for Everyone" sale on leftover 2008 models was a dud, especially compared with a similar offer three years ago that electrified the industry. GM's relentlessly upbeat vice-president for North America vehicle sales, service, and marketing, Mark LaNeve, hoped aloud that maybe industry sales have struck bottom, even as other forecasters have cut their predictions for 2008 sales to as low as 14 million units, the worst in at least 15 years.

In response to requests for more information about how we conduct our rankings, BusinessWeek is providing the following answers to frequently asked questions. Please refer to this document before calling or e-mailing BusinessWeek editors with methodology-related questions. If you have a question that is not addressed here, please send an e-mail to lindsey_gerdes@businessweek.com. We'll try to answer it directly or add it to this FAQ. 
When is the "Best Places to Launch a Career" ranking published?
 
How does BusinessWeek determine who is eligible for rankings?
 
If an employer has never been ranked before, how does it get considered for ranking?
 
What sources of data does BusinessWeek use to rank employers?
 
When does each survey get distributed? How long is it available for completion?
 How is the survey of career-services directors conducted? How is the student survey conducted by Universum Communications? How is the employer survey conducted? What happens if an employer does not answer a question? How are the various factors weighted? What do you do when there are no career-services survey data or student-survey data for a company in the ranking? Do employers ever get dropped from the rankings? Why would an employer's rank change from year to year? How can an employer or other interested person determine the reason for a specific change in rank? Why do you rank only 50 employers in the magazine? What role, if any, do companies and other organizations play in the surveys, beyond completing the employer survey? Do the employers contribute to the content of the surveys? Are copies of the career-services survey or the student survey conducted by Universum ever provided to the employers? Do employers receive any additional information after the rankings are over? Are the data collected from the employers for the online statistical profiles used in the ranking? What happens if an employer doesn't fill out the survey for the statistical profile by the deadline? How do you find employees to interview? 
When is the "Best Places to Launch a Career" ranking published?
 BusinessWeek plans to publish the "Best Places to Launch a Career" ranking annually in September. 
How does BusinessWeek determine who is eligible for rankings?
 BusinessWeek conducts a national survey of career-services directors to determine which employers should be considered for the ranking. 
If an employer has never been ranked before, how does it get considered for ranking?
 Unlike our rankings of MBA programs and undergraduate business programs, which allow schools to nominate themselves, the "Best Places to Launch a Career" ranking does not permit self-nomination. To be considered, an employer must be identified by the career-services directors who respond to our national survey as one that is among the best organizations in the U.S. for entry-level employees. 
What sources of data does BusinessWeek use to rank employers?
 BusinessWeek uses three sources of data—a survey of career-services directors, a survey of employers, and a student survey conducted by Universum USA, a market-research firm based in Philadelphia. 
When does each of the surveys get distributed? How long are they available for completion?
 The survey of career-services directors is distributed in February and is available for approximately one month. The employer survey is distributed in April and is available for approximately 6 to 8 weeks. The student survey is conducted by Universum over a three-month period starting in December. 
How is the survey of career services directors conducted?
 First, BusinessWeek identifies undergraduate career-services directors at approximately 250 large public and private schools in every region of the country—everything from liberal arts colleges to engineering schools. The survey, which is distributed by e-mail and conducted online, asks each director to identify five top employers for entry-level workers in each of 17 industries. BusinessWeek then scores the industry picks by awarding 5 points for every No. 1 ranking, 4 points for every No. 2 ranking, and so on. The five employers that fare the best in each of the 17 industries are eligible for the final ranking, as are the employers with the top industry point totals overall. In addition to asking for industry picks, the survey also asks career services directors to choose from their industry picks the 20 top employers for new college graduates overall, and to rank them 1 to 20. Each No. 1 ranking is awarded 20 points, every No. 2 ranking 19 points, and so on. Each employer's point total in this portion of the survey is used, along with the employer survey and student survey, to determine its final ranking. 
How is the student survey conducted by Universum?
 Universum conducts an e-mail survey of more than 70,000 undergraduates in every academic discipline at more than 200 U.S. colleges and universities, asking them to list the five employers they'd most like to work for. The most popular employers are ranked by the percentage of students who listed that company or organization among their top five.  BusinessWeek uses the percentages supplied by Universum to create a student survey rank for each of the employers in the ranking. Since the employers identified in the Universum survey are not necessarily the same as those ranked by BusinessWeek, the BusinessWeek student survey ranks will not necessarily match those distributed by Universum on its Web site and through other channels. (For example, if Google, IBM, and Lockheed Martin were ranked 1, 2, and 3 by Universum, but IBM chose not to participate in the BusinessWeek ranking, the student survey ranks appearing in the BusinessWeek ranking tables would be 1 for Google and 2 for Lockheed Martin.) This is necessary to create consecutive student survey ranks for the employers in the ranking. Furthermore, employers that are not ranked by Universum—because none of the students surveyed listed it as a top-five employer—are assigned the lowest student survey rank in the BusinessWeek ranking. This rank varies from year to year depending on the number of employers in the ranking and the number of ties in the Universum data. 
How is the employer survey conducted?
 Using the list of employers that were eligible for final ranking as a result of the survey of career-services directors, BusinessWeek distributes by e-mail an extensive survey asking for information on recruiting, pay, benefits, training and mentorship programs, retention, and advancement. Some of the information requested in the survey—approximately 50 questions—is used for ranking purposes; those questions are equally weighted. However, since several topics—including pay, retirement benefits, and training programs—are covered in a series of questions, those topics are, in effect, weighted more heavily than others that are covered in a single question. All of the information provided in the survey (with the exception of names and personal e-mail addresses) will appear in the employer's online statistical profile at BusinessWeek.com. For the ranking questions, each employer is compared with others in the same industry. For each question, the "best" answer receives the maximum award for each question, 10 points, while the "worst" answer (and no answer at all, or NA) receives zero points, with all other answers receiving 5 points each. For example, if three accounting companies complete the survey, and all three answer the question regarding average pay, the one that pays the most gets the most points for that question (10), the second-highest-paying company gets fewer (5), and the third company gets none. In addition to awarding zero points for the worst answer, employers that do not answer a question get zero points for that question. So, for example, if five companies in a given industry answer the question regarding their maximum 401(k) match—8%, 6%, 4%, 2%, and NA, respectively—10 points are awarded for 8%, 5 points are awarded for 6% and 4%, and zero points are awarded for 2% and NA. If all employers in an industry fail to answer a question, or answer it identically, the question is eliminated. When all the questions are scored, an employer survey score is determined for each organization by dividing the total number of points earned by that employer by the total number that it was possible for an employer in that industry to earn. 
What happens if an employer does not answer a question?
 If the question is one that is used for ranking purposes, the employer will be penalized in the ranking. For example, if three accounting companies complete the survey, but two of them decline to answer the question regarding pay, the one that does answer will get 10 points; the two others will receive none. The only exception to this is when all employers in an industry decline to answer a question. In that case, the question will be eliminated for that industry. In some cases, BusinessWeek will make an exception to this scoring method. For example, if an employer does not answer the question regarding its five-year retention rate because it is less than five years old, that employer will not be penalized. 
How are the various factors weighted?
 The employer survey counts for 50% of the final ranking. The survey of career-services directors and the Universum student survey each counts for 25% of the final ranking. 
What do you do when there are no career-services survey data or student-survey data for a company in the ranking?
 If there are no career-services survey data for an employer because none of the career-services directors surveyed included them among their top 10 companies overall, the employer forfeits 25% of its final ranking and will be ranked on the remaining 75% only. The same is true when there is no Universum student-survey data. If, however, both sources of data are unavailable for a given employer, that employer will be placed at the bottom of the ranking, its place determined entirely by its performance in the employer survey. 
Do employers ever get dropped from the rankings?
 An employer who does not submit the employer survey, or who fails to answer an adequate number of ranking questions, will be dropped. These employers will not be identified in the magazine or online. 
Why would an employer's rank change from year to year?
 There are several reasons why an employer's rank may change from year to year, including the following: • Facts change. Students and career-services directors report different top employers every year. With very few exceptions, being popular with either group in one year does not guarantee a good ranking the next. Even an employer's standing in the employer survey can change. If one manufacturing company holds the line on salaries while all others raise them, it could lose points on the employer survey, which could affect its ranking. • Competition increases. New employers entering the ranking could score better than those from the previous year, particularly at the industry level. In 2007 the size of the ranking nearly doubled, and in 2008 it increased again by some 24 employers, so this has been especially true in the first few years of ranking. Competition may also increase when the number of ranked employers shrinks, as it did in 2009. If an industry loses weak players that fared poorly on many questions in the past, the weakest of the remaining employers will do worse in the employer survey. For example, if three manufacturing companies report that their 401(k) match is 4%, 3%, and 1.5%, respectively, the one that answered 1.5% gets 0 points for that question. If that company drops out of the ranking in the following year, and the answers of the other two do not change, then the company that answered 3% gets 0 points, since its 401(k) match is now the lowest among manufacturing companies in the ranking. • Bigger rankings. Any time the number of employers in the ranking increases, an employer's rank may drop for no other reason. Consider a hypothetical company that ranked at No. 10 in 2006, when BusinessWeek ranked a total of 55 employers, and No. 15 in 2008, when 119 employers were ranked. While the employer's rank fell five spots, it's position relative to all other employers in the ranking actually improved—from the 18th percentile in 2006 to the 13th percentile in 2008. • Methodology changes. While BusinessWeek has retained the same basic methodology since it launched the ranking in 2006, we're constantly making minor changes that could have an impact on individual employers. Since the launch, we made changes in the questions that appear on the employer survey, the questions from the survey that are used in the ranking, the way individual questions are scored, and several other areas. • Lost or gained rankings. In rare instances, employers that one year registered on the Universum student survey and/or BusinessWeek's career-services survey no longer do: None of the students surveyed by Universum listed it among their most desirable, or none of the career services directors contacted by BusinessWeek included it in their list of the best employers for new college graduates. In equally rare instances, the opposite happens: Employers that did not register on one or both surveys one year  do register in the next. If an employer suddenly lacks data from both surveys, it will be placed at the bottom of the ranking and ranked solely on its employer survey; if an employer that lacked data from both surveys suddenly has data from at least one, it will be moved off the bottom of the ranking and ranked with all the others. Either way, the result can be a precipitous rise or fall in the employer's ranking. 
How can an employer or other interested person determine the reason for a specific change in rank?
 The reason for a specific change in rank can be determined by comparing the data in the interactive table published by BusinessWeek.com with the same table published with the previous year's ranking, and by comparing the data in the employers online profile with the data in the online profiles of other employers in the same industry. In the interactive table, the key data points are the three ranking measures: the Employer Survey Rank, Career Services Survey Rank, and Student Survey Rank. If an employer's performance on any of these measures improved or declined relative to all other employers in the ranking, that would explain a higher or lower overall ranking. By examining the online profiles, the reason for a better or worse performance on the employer survey can be determined. For example, if an employer consistently performed better than its rivals on important questions relating to pay and benefits, that's probably one reason its Employer Survey Rank was as high as it was; if it consistently performed poorly, or declined to answer many questions, that's likely one reason its Employer Survey Rank was as low as it was. 
Why do you rank only 50 employers in the magazine?
 In most years we only rank 50 employers in the magazine because space is limited. However we provide a complete list of all ranked employers online. 
What role, if any, do companies and other organizations play in the surveys, beyond completing the employer survey?
 None. 
Do the employers contribute to the content of the surveys?
 The career-services survey and the employer survey are prepared by BusinessWeek. Employers and career-services directors, while they may provide input from time to time, do not decide which questions to ask or how to ask them. This is necessary to maintain the integrity and independence of the ranking process. The student survey is created and administered entirely by Universum. 
Are copies of the career-services survey or the student survey conducted by Universum ever provided to the employers?
 No. 
Do employers receive any additional information after the rankings are over?
 No. 
Are the data collected from the employers for the online statistical profiles used in the ranking?
 Yes. More than half of the questions in the employer survey are used to rank the employers. 
What happens if an employer doesn't fill out the survey for the statistical profile by the deadline?
 It will not be ranked and it will not receive a statistical profile on BusinessWeek.com. 
How do you find employees to interview?
 In the employer survey we ask for the names and e-mail addresses of three entry-level hires from the year before. This data are neither used in the ranking nor included in the employer's statistical profile. In addition, BusinessWeek may from time to time seek out and interview other employees as our needs dictate.

The following companies had unusual price changes in U.S. markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and prices are as of 4 p.m. in New York. Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABK US) jumped 22 percent to $8.65, the highest since March. The world's second-biggest bond insurer received approval from Wisconsin regulators to begin offering municipal bond insurance through a newly capitalized company.

FRIEDMAN BILLINGS DOWNGRADES KENEXA TO MARKET PERFORM FROM OUTPERFORM Friedman Billings analyst David Hilal say he sees greater uncertainty in the software sector in the second half of 2008 and early 2009. He says his analysis suggests that over the next two quarters there is greater risk to the downside to current estimates versus upside.

U.S. job cuts surged 12 percent last month from a year earlier as rising layoffs at automakers and the government overwhelmed a reduction in losses at financial firms, according to a report by a private placement firm. Firing announcements increased to 88,736 last month from 79,459 in August 2007, Chicago-based Challenger, Gray & Christmas Inc. said in a statement today.

At first glance, business in China could hardly be better for Coca-Cola (KO). In the 29 years since Coke returned to China after the country opened its doors to Western investment, the Atlanta giant has built a successful nationwide operation on its Coke, Sprite, and Fanta brands. Although Coke doesn't reveal revenue numbers for the country, China is its fourth-largest market; only the U.S., Mexico, and Brazil are larger. The company boasts that it has enjoyed double-digit growth in the country for five years in a row. But Chinese may be growing tired of fizzy drinks. Growth in the carbonated beverage sector is starting to slow as consumers become more health-conscious. The market for fruit juices is already bigger than the soda market, for instance, and it's growing at a faster rate. Thanks to its Minute Maid orange juice and other drinks, Coke is No. 2 in the juice market. In a sign of how crowded the segment is, Coke's No. 2 ranking translates into just 9.7% market share in juice. That's way ahead of archrival Pepsi (PEP), which is an also-ran with less than 1% market share.

If ever there was a car made for the times, this would seem to be it: a sporty subcompact that seats five, offers a navigation system, and gets a whopping 65 miles to the gallon. Oh yes, and the car is made by Ford Motor (F), known widely for lumbering gas hogs. Ford's 2009 Fiesta ECOnetic goes on sale in November. But here's the catch: Despite the car's potential to transform Ford's image and help it compete with Toyota Motor (TM) and Honda Motor (HMC) in its home market, the company will sell the little fuel sipper only in Europe. "We know it's an awesome vehicle," says Ford America President Mark Fields. "But there are business reasons why we can't sell it in the U.S." The main one: The Fiesta ECOnetic runs on diesel. Automakers such as Volkswagen (VLKAY) and Mercedes-Benz (DAI) have predicted for years that a technology called "clean diesel" would overcome many Americans' antipathy to a fuel still often thought of as the smelly stuff that powers tractor trailers. Diesel vehicles now hitting the market with pollution-fighting technology are as clean or cleaner than gasoline and at least 30% more fuel-efficient. Yet while half of all cars sold in Europe last year ran on diesel, the  U.S. market remains relatively unfriendly to the fuel. Taxes aimed at commercial trucks mean diesel costs anywhere from 40 cents to $1 more per gallon than gasoline. Add to this the success of the Toyota Prius, and you can see why only 3% of cars in the U.S. use diesel. "Americans see hybrids as the darling," says Global Insight auto analyst Philip Gott, "and diesel as old-tech." None of this is stopping European and Japanese automakers, which are betting they can jump-start the U.S. market with new diesel models. Mercedes-Benz by next year will have three cars it markets as "BlueTec." Even Nissan (NSANY) and Honda, which long opposed building diesel cars in Europe, plan to introduce them in the U.S. in 2010. But Ford, whose Fiesta ECOnetic compares favorably with European diesels, can't make a business case for bringing the car to the U.S. First of all, the engines are built in Britain, so labor costs are high. Plus the pound remains stronger than the greenback. At prevailing exchange rates, the Fiesta ECOnetic would sell for about $25,700 in the U.S. By contrast, the Prius typically goes for about $24,000. A $1,300 tax deduction available to buyers of new diesel cars could bring the price of the Fiesta to around $24,400. But Ford doesn't believe it could charge enough to make money on an imported ECOnetic. Ford plans to make a gas-powered version of the Fiesta in Mexico for the U.S. So why not manufacture diesel engines there, too? Building a plant would cost at least $350 million at a time when Ford has been burning through more than $1 billion a month in cash reserves. Besides, the automaker would have to produce at least 350,000 engines a year to make such a venture profitable. "We just don't think North and South America would buy that many diesel cars," says Fields. The question, of course, is whether the U.S. ever will embrace diesel fuel and allow automakers to achieve sufficient scale to make money on such vehicles. California certified VW and Mercedes diesel cars earlier this year, after a four-year ban. James N. Hall, of auto researcher 293 Analysts, says that bellwether state and the Northeast remain "hostile to diesel." But the risk to Ford is that the fuel takes off, and the carmaker finds itself playing catch-up—despite having a serious diesel contender in its arsenal. Business Exchange related topics:Global Auto IndustryU.S. AutomakersGreen CarsElectric CarsHybrid CarsDiesel Cars

Some are calling Google's (GOOG) new browser Chrome an "Internet Explorer killer." Others venture further and call it a "Windows killer." Whether Google's newly launched browser has Microsoft (MSFT) quaking is unclear, but there's no doubt that Google is serious about "organizing the world's information"—and is prepared to shake up the status quo in the process. It should come as little surprise that Google is entering the Web browser market. The search heavyweight already has a substantial stake in our online activities. Search, check! E-mail, check! Office documents, check! The list of Web applications offered by Google is both long and varied. With its goal of providing all of our online needs, it makes perfect sense that Google would step up and provide a Web browser built to accommodate its applications. With Chrome, Google is betting that more of us will move more of our computing from desktops to online, relying on the vast data centers known as "the cloud." But can Google's Web browser singlehandedly entice us to dump a favorite Web browser and our computer's operating system?

Airlines may report combined losses of about $5.2 billion this year, almost $3 billion higher than forecast in June, as economies slow and fuel costs erode earnings, the International Air Transport Association said. The net loss will fall short of the $6.1 billion worst-case-scenario the industry body envisaged in the last forecast because of a recent drop in oil prices, Chief Executive Officer Giovanni Bisignani said today in Montreal. Traffic growth will be lower than predicted as an economic slowdown spreads, he said.

Browser wars? On steroids. When Google (GOOG) announced on Sept. 1 that it was releasing its own Web browser, Chrome, the immediate buzz was that the bruising battles over browser domination, played out between Netscape and Microsoft (MSFT) in the late 1990s, were back on. Google, though, has much bigger ambitions. The goal, say Google execs, is not merely to win share of an existing market, but to change the very nature of Internet browsing—and the way we use computers. If Chrome works as planned, it will lead much of computing from the desktop—Microsoft's domain—toward remote data centers. These, in Google's lingo, are known as the "cloud." Google runs the biggest and most efficient data centers on earth, and moving much of the world's computing from desktops into its clouds is the heart of the company's strategy. "Google really believes the future of the Web is running applications on the Web," says Danny Sullivan, who runs Calafia Consulting, a Web consulting firm. "They want to be leading the charge."

The yuan dropped for a second day against the dollar, sliding along with currencies including the euro and the pound on speculation cheaper crude oil will bolster economic growth in the U.S. Traders have pared bets since mid-July on how far the yuan will strengthen in the next 12 months as the dollar rebounds. The People's Bank of China has managed the yuan's exchange rate against a basket of currencies, including the euro, the yen and the British pound, since a peg to the dollar ended in 2005.

U.S. equities closed mostly lower on Wednesday but well off their worst levels of the session as market concerns about ongoing economic pressures and political uncertainties eclipsed lower oil prices and better than expected July factory orders data, which showed the manufacturing sector holding up surprisingly well in spite of general economic weakness. Anecdotal evidence of more widespread economic deterioration in the Federal Reserve's Beige Book helped to confirmed investors' concerns about the economy. Business contacts in a few districts said high energy and other input costs were prompting them to raise their selling prices, while wage pressures were moderate.

With the credit crunch in full swing, retailers around the world are slashing prices and shuttering shops. But Sweden's Hennes & Mauritz (HMB.ST), a pioneer of cheap but chic fashion, is managing to buck the trend: opening stores, entering new markets, and adding new brands. "Our strategy is based on the concept of fashion and quality at the best price," says H&M Chief Executive Rolf Eriksen. "It helps us stay balanced even during economic downturns." Defying tough times, H&M will enter one of the world's most competitive fashion markets with the opening of its first store in Japan on Sept. 13. The initial outlet, in Tokyo's Ginza shopping district, will be followed by a second store in Harajuku on Nov. 8. At the same time, H&M will also launch its latest high-profile design collaboration with Japanese designer Rei Kawakubo, the founder of cutting-edge fashion brand Comme des Garçons. A third Japanese store in Shibuya is expected to open next fall.

Kuwait Finance House (KFH) has announced a $275 million investment in Hong Kong-developer Nan Hai's Peninsula project. Located in Shenzhen, the property development investment is part of the Islamic bank's strategy to expand its presence in East Asian markets. The largest Kuwaiti bank by market value, KFH announced over the weekend that it will invest in the $3 billion Peninsula project through its Asia Fund 2.

In July, a rumor circulated in the Chinese and Western business media that Chery Automobile was considering purchasing Ford's (F) Volvo luxury car division for more than $4 billion (BusinessWeek.com, 7/7/08). In August, a second rumor went around that another Chinese automaker—Guangzhou Automotive—was interested in Volvo. I don't know if Volvo is worth $4 billion. (With Ford announcing on Sept. 2 the appointment of Stephen Odell, chief operating officer for Ford Europe, as Volvo's new chief executive, the U.S. company doesn't appear to be interested in selling right now.) What I do know is that based on recent history, I would recommend that Chery, Guangzhou Automotive, or any Chinese automaker eyeballing an acquisition of a foreign automotive brand rethink its strategy. Let's consider what has happened with some major automotive acquisitions over the past 20-30 years:

India is tipped to be the world's fastest growing semiconductor market, with a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 19.2 percent between 2007 and 2012, Phillip Koh, Gartner's research vice president for semiconductors in the Asia-Pacific region, said Tuesday at the company's 14th annual semiconductors roadshow here. This means that globally, the Indian market has the highest increase in semiconductors required in devices. Another fast-growing segment was what Gartner termed as "other Asia-Pacific" markets, which include Southeast Asian nations such as Indonesia, the Philippines, Thailand and Vietnam. Among this group, Vietnam scored the highest CAGR at 46 percent.

The European Parliament has called on the EU's executive to introduce measures to support the roll-out of a Europe-wide filling-station network for hydrogen-powered cars and develop common standards for the vehicles across all member states. MEPs almost unanimously adopted a report on Wednesday (3 September) drafted by members of the centre-right European Peoples' Party grouping in the parliament on hydrogen-powered vehicles.

You're the lead singer in the biggest band in the world and you need someone to design a poster for your next tour—what do you do? If you're Mick Jagger in 1970 you call up the Royal College of Art and ask them to recommend a student to do it. So it was that John Pasche began a working relationship with the band that produced one of the most memorable and widely-recognised graphic devices ever created. Pasche was part of a talented group of graphics students at the college—his contemporaries including George Hardie and Storm Thorgerson. Following Jagger's phone call to the college, he went along for a meeting with the star, the upshot of which was a pastiche of a 1930s travel poster which was used to promote the Stones' English tour that year.

It was nearly a decade ago when a then-young Marc Andreessen, the wunderboy founder of Netscape Communications, first talked about the concept of the browser pushing the operating system into the background. With the release of Google's (GOOG) experimental browser Chrome, we have come full circle. A lot has changed in the past 10 years. For one thing, the cost of hardware and network infrastructure has declined sharply. Such a decline has led to what's known as cloud computing, whereby companies like Amazon.com (AMZN) offer infrastructure on demand. That has, in turn, allowed innovators to roll out their applications without making major outlays up front.

The furnishings and managers are part of the insolvency estate. The head of the operation wears a cloth cap and has facial piercings, while his office mates are dressed in camouflage trousers and sneakers. The group, headed by André Kegel, managing director of Strike-Bike in the eastern German town of Nordhausen, puts little stock in appearances. Their main concern is to keep the remains of their former company alive. A few dozen new bicycles hang forlornly on shipping hooks in the production building. A pot used to boil sausages stands on a hotplate in the corner of the break room, and the wall decorations include an old map of the former East Germany and a copy of the "Big Humor Calendar." The monthly aphorism for August reads: "People don't recognize their own paradise until they have been pushed out of it."

Sources close to Tatas said Pantnagar in Uttarakhand and Pune in Maharashtra were emerging as the most likely alternative locations. When contacted, a majority of vendors said they had "no option but to follow the Tatas in case of a pullout." Around 60 vendors, who were set to make a collective Rs 500-crore investment at the site, would also suffer if the company shifted, the sources added.

Do you matter? That question—asked so often, by so many, in such varied contexts—is bluntly posed by industrial designer Robert Brunner and corporate consultant Stewart Emery in a new book of the same title published this month (FT Press). The question, with the subtitle "How great design will make people love your company", amounts to more than designer navel-gazing. For the book's authors, it heralds a broader manifesto on the importance of design in creating products and services that not only sell well but also endear brands to consumers. Brunner and Emery aim to explain how companies such as Apple (AAPL), BMW (BMW), Ikea, and Target (TGT) use design to establish lasting (and lucrative) relationships with consumers.

Microsoft (MSFT) thought it would steal a march on the competition when it launched its Xbox 360 video-game console in late 2005, a year before rivals could get out their competing products. The idea was to secure a lead to build on, something that eluded the company when it launched the original Xbox four years earlier. But the Xbox 360's advantage evaporated this summer when Nintendo's rival Wii bolted ahead of the Microsoft device in the number of consoles sold. The Wii's innovative motion-sensing game play lured casual gamers, landing Nintendo atop the $48 billion-a-year business. Now Microsoft is taking a page from Wii's strategy in its battle against Nintendo and Sony (SNE) in video games. BusinessWeek has learned that Microsoft will cut prices on all three of its Xbox 360 models in the U.S. on Sept. 5, following a similar cut in Japan on Sept. 1. The latest move includes an $80 price cut on the entry-level Xbox 360 Arcade, which at $199 will be the cheapest of the current generation of consoles on the market, $50 lower than the Wii.

S&P UPGRADES OPINION ON SHARES OF AMBAC FINANCIAL GROUP TO HOLD FROM SELL (ABK;  8.77): We believe ABK's receipt of regulatory approval to fund a new bond insurance unit that could receive a top-tier financial strength rating will likely provide the shares (down 66%, year-to-date) with a catalyst. Our outlook remains tempered by concerns that claims from ABK's structured finance unit continue to impact results in coming periods and that ABK's business model and reputation remain, in our view, diminished. Our $9 target price, raised $4.50 today, assumes ABK shares trade at a discount to historical price/book levels, but in line with most peers. -C. Seifert

The Republican convention in St. Paul got off to a bumpy start on Sept. 1 as Hurricane Gustav sideswiped New Orleans and forced GOP organizers to reshuffle their schedule. But two days earlier, Senator John McCain generated a tempest of his own with his surprise Vice-Presidential pick, Alaska Governor Sarah Palin. While the risky choice delighted conservatives who have been leery of McCain, rapid-fire revelations about Palin's record in office and a family contretemps posed a distraction. As of press time on Sept. 3, the convention was back on track, with a minimalist valedictory from President George W. Bush and a sharp focus on the central message: that McCain offers the seasoned leadership the nation needs. Will addresses by Palin and McCain win over voters anxious about the economy?





































































































In South Ossetia's capital the other day, Sonia Gagloyeva moved her daughter, grandson and their belongings into a new home: a green tent pitched down the street from dozens of Russian armored personnel-carriers. ``Thanks to Russia for defending us; they saved us,'' said Gagloyeva, a stooping, gray-haired 69-year-old. Her new temporary canvas quarters, provided by the Russians, are next to the rubble piles that had been her house in Tskhinvali.

Foreclosures accelerated to the fastest pace in almost three decades during the second quarter as interest rates increased and home values fell, prompting more Americans to walk away from homes they couldn't refinance or sell. New foreclosures increased to 1.19 percent, rising above 1 percent for the first time in the survey's 29 years, the Mortgage Bankers Association said in a report today. The total inventory of homes in foreclosure reached 2.75 percent, almost tripling since the five-year housing boom ended in 2005. The share of loans with one or more payments overdue rose to a seasonally adjusted 6.41 percent of all mortgages, an all-time high, from 6.35 percent in the first quarter.

Calpine Corp., the biggest U.S. producer of electricity from natural gas, plans to increase investments and maintenance to reduce plant breakdowns that curb sales and boost costs, Chief Executive Officer Jack Fusco said. Calpine's 77 plants should be ready to run 95 percent of the time, up from 90 percent in the second quarter, Fusco said yesterday at a New York interview at a conference hosted by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Fusco, who took the helm on Aug. 10, didn't provide an estimate for the higher spending.

Gruppo Editoriale L'Espresso SpA, the publisher of Rome-based daily la Repubblica, said Marco Benedetto has resigned as chief executive officer and will be replaced by Monica Mondardini. The management change will take place in the coming months, L'Espresso said in a stock exchange statement today. Mondardini is currently CEO of Assicurazioni Generali SpA's Spanish business, according to the insurer's Web site.

The following companies were having unusual price changes in Canadian trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are as of 1:06 p.m. in Toronto. The Standard & Poor's/TSX Composite Index fell 0.9 percent to 12,702.65, paring an earlier drop of as much as 2.1 percent.

Citigroup Inc., Merrill Lynch & Co. and three other banks were accused in a shareholder lawsuit of failing to warn investors about proposed accounting-rule changes that lowered the value of preferred Fannie Mae stock. Karen Orkin, who bought 600 shares of Fannie Mae's Series T Preferred Stock in May, filed a complaint in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan in a proposed class-action, or group, lawsuit. Orkin said about 89 million shares of the stock were sold, and the stock dropped 44 percent in value in four months.

Brazilian stocks fell for a sixth day, capping its biggest weekly loss in four years, on concern that profit estimates may be cut as slowing global growth reduces demand for raw materials. Petroleo Brasileiro SA and Cia. Vale do Rio Doce, the commodities producers that have the heaviest weighting in the index, slid as oil and metals prices declined. Gerdau SA led a drop in steelmakers on concern decelerating growth will curb demand for construction materials. Cia. Energetica de Sao Paulo, the utility controlled by Sao Paulo state, fell the most on the Bovespa on reports the government may not renew some licenses.

The following is a list of companies whose stocks may have unusual changes in Paris. Symbols are in parentheses after company names and prices are from the last close. France's CAC 40 Index dropped 143.12, or 3.2 percent, to 4,304.01 in Paris, the biggest decline since March 17. The SBF 120 Index tumbled 3.1 percent.

Honda Motor Co., Japan's second-largest automaker, said hybrid cars will almost double their proportion of its sales in Europe as it adds a new model and higher fuel prices spur demand for fuel-efficient vehicles. The introduction of the hybrid Insight will raise hybrids to more than 10 percent of Honda's European sales next year from about 5 percent now,  Shigeru Takagi, senior managing director in charge of Honda's European business, said in an interview with reporters in Tokyo today.

The following is a list of companies whose shares may have unusual price changes in U.K. and Irish markets today. Stock symbols are in parentheses and prices are from the last market close. The benchmark FTSE 100 Index fell 137.6, or 2.5 percent, to 5,362.10. The FTSE All-Share Index dropped 2.4 percent, and Ireland's ISEQ Index fell 1.7 percent.

Telecom Plus Plc, which supplies utility billing services in the U.K., climbed to its highest in more than four years in London trading after saying full-year profit will ``significantly'' exceed analyst estimates. Telecom Plus gained 10.25 pence, or 2.8 percent, to 377.5 pence. The stock has risen 104 percent this year, giving the London-based company a market value of 251.5 million pounds ($445 million).

Kevin Keegan quit as Newcastle United manager for a second time following a dispute over player transfers, a day after Alan Curbishley resigned from English Premier League soccer rival West Ham for the same reason. Keegan, who also quit Newcastle in 1997, received a letter yesterday from managing director Derek Llambias that failed to resolve the issues, the League Managers Association said in a statement. Keegan held the job for less than eight months and said he had ``worked desperately'' to resolve his differences.

Ciba Holding AG, the world's largest maker of colors for plastics, rose the most in a decade in Swiss trading on speculation the chief executive officer's departure at Swiss rival Clariant AG may reanimate merger talks. Ciba, based in Basel, Switzerland, advanced 10 percent to

South Africa's FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index lost 495.01, or 1.9 percent, to 25,695.08 at 10.35 a.m. in Johannesburg, the lowest value in more than a month. The measure has retreated 7.3 percent this week. The following are among the most active stocks in the South African market today.

The New York Giants began the defense of their Super Bowl title with a 16-7 win over the Washington Redskins tonight. Eli Manning threw for 216 yards and scored on a one-yard run for New York's only touchdown, while Brandon Jacobs carried 21 times for 116 yards at Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey. John Carney kicked three field goals in the National Football League's season opener.

National Basketball Association Commissioner David Stern was so angered by two rookies' behavior at a league meeting for first-year players that he had them expelled, ESPN reported on its Web site. Mario Chalmers and Darrell Arthur, both members of the University of Kansas's national championship team last season, were dismissed from the NBA's four-day rookie transition program in Rye Brook, New York, after women and signs of marijuana were found in their hotel room, ESPN said. The program has a no-visitors rule, the broadcaster said.

Samsung Securities has announced that it will expand and refocus its Hong Kong subsidiary as part of a new regional and global strategy formalised since the arrival in June of Park Chun-hyeon as chief executive officer. Samsung's Hong Kong office, which until now has concentrated solely on Korean securities brokerage, will grow to include M&A and equity capital market origination by a corporate finance department staffed by six professionals, as well as trading, institutional brokerage of Hong Kong stocks and principal investment. The research and sales department will be made up of 35 people out of a total initial headcount of more than 50, which will also include support staff. The subsidiary will increase its capital by $100 million from just $1 million currently.

Think of St. Moritz, and it's unlikely summer vacations and high culture will spring to mind. Yet that's how the glamorous Swiss ski resort is seeking to promote itself with St. Moritz Art Masters, a new festival that runs through Sept. 7. It aims to be an annual fixture that will attract wealthy art lovers at a time of year when the town's myriad swish hotels are clamoring for guests.

In the era of inspirational leadership, competitive advantage is being derived not only from pragmatic values such as quality, but also from humanistic, social, and environmental values such as integrity, transparency, sustainability, and trust. In my previous column, I explained how inspiration has emerged as the  most important leadership habit (BusinessWeek.com, 8/5/08). In this column, I want to show how the source of 21st-century leadership—and the inspiration that fuels it—has shifted from success to significance, as viewed through the prism of "should." One of the most powerful applications of "should" recorded in business exists in a 1942 document authored by Robert Wood Johnson, the son of the founder of Johnson & Johnson (JNJ). General Johnson, as he was called after his World War II service, wrote a one-page document that came to be known as the Johnson & Johnson &quotCredo."

Carlos Sastre, who won this year's Tour de France, is quitting Team CSC Saxo Bank after seven years to join the newly formed Cervelo Test team. Sastre and CSC Saxo Bank's sports director Bjarne Riis couldn't agree on terms to extend their contract which expires at the end of this year, the Lyngby, Denmark-based team said today on its Web site.

For private equity investors, the sheen is wearing off purchases of public asphalt. A year ago, banks and private investment firms were racing to pour money into infrastructure projects such as highways and light-rail systems. Compared with an investment in stocks, buying or leasing a highway seemed like a low-risk bet with easily estimated, long-term returns. After all, competing highways or mass transit systems couldn't just spring up overnight to divert toll- and ticket-paying customers. But $4-a-gallon gasoline slowed the enthusiasm for such projects. Many commuters are choosing to leave their cars in the garage and take mass transit, or don't have a job to drive to anymore. "If you look at the publicly reported forecasts for the Chicago Skyway or Wall Street estimates of global traffic, they are completely different now," said George Bilicic, a managing director at NYC private equity firm Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts who spoke on a panel held Sept. 3 at the University of Minnesota. "It goes into the risk assessment associated with the investment decision."

The world's best tennis players have been serving up some sizzling volleys at this week's U.S. Open at Flushing Meadows. But for the real head-turning, back-and-forth action on Friday, investors could focus their attention just a few miles away: Wall Street. Major U.S. equity indexes finished mostly higher on Friday, staging an impressive comeback from early lows after extending a sell-off in the previous session that saw each of the major market benchmarks lose at least 3%. The market's suspicions of accelerating weakness in the U.S. labor market, a big factor in Thursday's declines, were confirmed by the release Friday of the U.S. employment report for August, which showed a surprising jump in the U.S. jobless rate to 6.1% from 5.7% in the previous month.

There are those who are disappointed in the U.S. for squandering its chance to lead the world to a better energy future over the past 21 years. There are those who believe that America Inc. should have more prudently managed its finances. Others believe the U.S. never should have gone to Iraq. Finally, there are those who believe that America should have done a better job waging the war, irrespective of why it was started. There are a lot of people disappointed with America these days; they include many Americans. However, there is something about America that demands great admiration: the current Presidential election. Elections are supposed to offer clear choices. Nobody disputes that this election offers voters a clear choice. In the past, candidates produced clarity by associating with an ideology along the lines of their party affiliation. Senators John McCain and Barack Obama have gone beyond traditional politics. Each proposes a different purpose for America. And each of them is fit to lead us to his purpose. Therefore, the choice we face is clear and meaningful, for meaningful can be only what is in pursuit of a purpose.

By BusinessWeek, Standard & Poor's, and Action Economics staff Financial markets were expecting the U.S. economy to shed jobs in the August employment report, released Sept. 5, but a big jump in the U.S. unemployment rate took Wall Street by surprise. The weaker-than-expected data for August suggest the U.S. economy is headed for recession and puts pressure on the Federal Reserve to lower rates rather than raise them, as the Fed has indicated it wants to do.

Whenever Ellena Yuan gets her monthly $1,600 paycheck, she likes to head out to the streets of Shanghai for a bit of shoe therapy. Though Yuan attributes her love of shoes to the TV series Sex and the City, she isn't on the prowl for Manolo Blahniks. Instead the 27-year-old senior merchandiser in the Shanghai office of a Hong Kong-owned garment sourcing company called Porta Asiatica heads for shops operated by Belle International, where she can find something she likes for under $80. "They are very popular, and the price is low," says Yuan. That combination has helped Belle International become China's No. 1 woman's shoe retailer, with a 22% market share in the country, according to CLSA. And its dominance at the premium end of the market is even greater. Its three brands—Staccato, Millie's, and Joy&Peace—account for about a 50% share of the $90 to $150 shoe segment. "They are strongly leveraged to the rising office-lady class in China, which is relatively new," says Forrest Chan, a retail analyst at CLSA in Hong Kong.

Regulating Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investors Service won't help investors, the Association of British Insurers said, adding to a financial-industry backlash against European Union financial measures. Policy makers should seek more disclosure from the companies and investment banks that sell securities, instead of focusing blame on credit ratings for the past year's market turmoil, the London-based insurers' group said.

The carefully crafted ecosystem of tech companies built around Microsoft's Windows operating system is showing signs of strain. Hewlett-Packard (HPQ), a longtime Microsoft ally, has quietly assembled a group of engineers to develop software that would make Windows Vista easier to use, or bypass some of its more onerous features. A Skunk Works of engineers at the company is even angling to replace Windows with an HP-assembled operating system, sources say. HP's "customer experience group"—formed nine months ago and headed by vice-president Susie Wee, a former director in the company's research labs—is developing software that can complement Microsoft's (MSFT) Windows operating system to make it accessible to more users. Wee's team is tackling touchscreen technology and software that lets users circumvent Vista to watch movies or view photos, as well as transferring ideas from HP's Halo videoconferencing system to mass-market products. "Our customers are looking for insanely simple technology where they don't have to fight with the technology to get the task done," says Phil McKinney, chief technology officer in HP's personal systems group. "For us, it's about innovating on top of Vista."

Dan Ryan, the 46-year-old head of real estate management at EMC (EMC), has lived his whole life in Massachusetts. But as his company has become increasingly global, he has had to widen his horizons. So before he undertook a major expansion of EMC's operations in India, he turned to an online training tool called GlobeSmart, designed to help companies overcome cultural and other barriers that can hinder success abroad. Produced by San Francisco's Aperian Global, GlobeSmart helped Ryan prepare to deal with EMC employees and potential landlords in India—and avoid the faux pas that might have derailed plans to move from a 165,000-square-foot office in Bangalore into a building three times as large.

Results for the first quarter of 2008 could have made us believe that Europe would remain relatively immune from the U.S. slowdown and the disruptions in financial markets. Since then, however, a flurry of data from across the region consistently suggests that such views were overly optimistic, and a major slowdown is about to occur in the second half of this year. Gross domestic product (GDP) in the Eurozone contracted at a 0.8% annual rate in the second quarter. Additionally, the July survey of purchasing managers in manufacturing and services dropped to its lowest level since 2001.

Europe is still divided when it comes to working hours. According to a recent study, the newest members of the European Union put in the most time on the job, while many of the Union's long-time members give their workers more time off and less time at work. In a study published Wednesday by Dublin-based EU think tank Eurofound, official and reported work hours were compared across the EU. Europe's hardest workers, at least in terms of hours spent on the job? Full-time workers in Romania and Bulgaria, the EU's newest members, put in 41.7 hours a week. Germany ranked 6th, with workers reporting 41.1 hours a week spent at work.

From S&P Index Services (which operates separately from S&P Equity Research)
 Warren Buffett has earned a reputation as one of the preeminent value investors of all time. His Berkshire Hathaway (BRKA) holding company has stakes in insurance, publishing, retailing, and manufacturing, among other businesses, and more than $28 billion of cash on hand, in addition to $102 billion of securities.

When Apple (AAPL) opened its iTunes App Store in July, the idea of a mass-market Web site that sells downloadable games, tools, and other applications for cell phones was a rarity. Handset owners could buy apps from their carriers or the occasional niche site. But these days, the app store concept is becoming commonplace. The question is, does the world need a warren of wireless app stores? In the coming six months, at least four would-be rivals of Apple will probably open their own online bazaars where developers of all stripes will sell downloadable software applications to make cell phones more fun and useful. Google (GOOG) has already announced its plans, while Microsoft (MSFT), Symbian,  and T-Mobile USA are in the likely-to camp.

As the fire-spitting front man for the rock band KISS, Gene Simmons has put on his kabuki make-up and donned his platform dragon boots for the past 35 years. But for Simmons, KISS is just, well, his night job. Born Chaim Witz in Haifa, Israel, Simmons came to America as an eight-year-old boy and says he has been living the American Dream ever since. Known for both his music and his business acumen, he's the force behind thousands of licensed KISS products and numerous ventures, including his discontinued magazine Gene Simmons' Tongue, Simmons Records, clothing line Moneybag, and the brand marketing firm Simmons Abramson Marketing, the outfit behind the "I Am Indy" Campaign. He's also continuing to keep his brand in the public spotlight: His reality TV show Gene Simmons Family Jewels is coming back for a fourth season on A&E, he has a new reality show called Jingles on tap, and in July he released his tome on prostitution, Ladies of the Night. Simmons recently spoke with staff writer Stacy Perman about entrepreneurship, failure, and all things Gene Simmons. Edited excerpts of their conversation follow.

An asteroid hurtles toward a distant planet. Smacking the surface, the rock sends a blush of glowing red ash into the air. In the steaming gloop left behind, a soup of new life, countless amoebas begin vying for evolutionary supremacy. It's the beginning of the world as they know it—and I feel fine. The game I am playing is the long-awaited Spore, to be released Sept. 7 by Electronic Arts (ERTS). Spore, of course, is the brain child of Will Wright, the creator of the best-selling Sims series and the closest thing the gaming industry has to its own Einstein—a super-genius with the chutzpah to attempt to devise a unifying theory of everything. Or, in this case, a game that simulates everything from life's first steps to the clash of advanced, space-faring civilizations. Spore is billed as a "universe in a box," and after three years of delays and mounting anticipation, that's exactly what the game makers have delivered.

When a stunning 87% of Boeing machinists voted on Sept. 3 to go on strike, second-guessers wondered whether these skilled plane builders had a few screws loose. After all, management was offering wage hikes that would top 11% over three years and bonuses of more than $5,000. Boeing was even offering to hike its traditional pension payments, rather than scrap them, as the company first proposed. "You guys are crazy!" wrote one reader on a BusinessWeek.com message board. "Those numbers are great. Most people would die to get those raises in the midst of an economic slowdown." Yet most of the 27,000 members of the International Association of Machinists (IAM) are hopping mad about the contract offer Boeing dealt them last week. Many are even angry at their union leaders for putting off the strike for two days, upset that the leaders agreed to sit down with management and a federal mediator to try to resolve a contract before Friday night, Sept. 5. After marching by the hundreds—as many as 7,000 workers gathered at one location in Everett, Wash.—to vote down the proposed pact and walk off the job, they shouted "sellout" when union leaders accepted the delay. Union leaders were hard-pressed to argue that they may yet come to terms on a deal that would make the members happy.

The majority of Brits would love to work from home and believe they would be more productive if they were allowed to do so. The only thing standing in their way? Their boss. A Plantronics survey of 1,400 office workers has found almost two-thirds (62 per cent) believe they would be happier and more productive working from home but three-quarters (75 per cent) are in jobs that don't allow any flexible working.

Battered by a year of flagging prices for flash-memory chips and by an inability to get traction in sales of digital media devices, SanDisk (SNDK) may soon get scooped up by South Korean electronics giant Samsung Group. SanDisk shares gained $4.18, or more than 31%, on Sept. 5 after Samsung said it's considering options for SanDisk that include an acquisition. SanDisk issued a statement that neither confirmed nor denied that a deal is in the offing.

Posted on Bangalore Calling: August 21, 2008 8:11 AM
 Even in the best of times, organizations pay only lip service to skills enhancement. Instead, replicating a task repeatedly is perceived as the way to increase productivity and efficiency. Since growth is treated as a given based on the number of years one has been in a job, employees are given new and sometimes fanciful designations in the hope that such palliatives will indeed motivate them. Inevitably then, people tend to rise to their level of incompetence.

Ah, the end of the summer travel season. That means cheaper airfares, more seats to choose from, and room to spread your paperwork out on the plane—not! The end of this year's Labor Day holiday marks the beginning of the sharpest downsizing in the airline industry since the 2001 terrorist attacks. Faced with sky-high fuel costs and a weak economy, big airlines such as Continental (CAL), Delta (DAL), United (UAUA) and American (AMR) are cutting their flight schedules as much as 14% this fall. Even perennial growth machine Southwest Airlines (LUV) is eliminating nearly 200 flights in January. For air travelers this will mean higher fares, fewer flight options, and planes that will still seem as crowded as sardine cans. "This is the new economics of $100-a-barrel oil," says Mike Boyd, an airline industry consultant. Airlines will be offering 20 million fewer seats in the fourth quarter, according to data from the research firm OAG Travel Solutions. Some cities are losing a big chunk of their flights. Among the hardest hit: Kansas City, Mo., with scheduled flights down 27% in October; Cincinnati, down 23%, and Oklahoma City, down 22%. Vacation stalwarts Orlando and Las Vegas aren't immune. Service there is expected to be down 19% and 14%, respectively. In all, some 400 routes are being cut nationwide. "If you're going anywhere for Thanksgiving, Christmas, or even the school break in February, you'd better book early," says George Hobica, founder of Airfarewatchdog.com, a travel site.

If you start a new business today, you stand a reasonably good chance of surviving for two years. But after two years, success rates drop. According to the Small Business Administration, only 44% of new businesses make it to their fourth year. But these numbers shouldn't discourage you if your business is also your passion. Consider David Kinch. Kinch is the owner and chef behind the Los Gatos, Calif., restaurant Manresa, one of the top 50 restaurants in the world according to Restaurant Magazine. In a recent interview with the San Jose Mercury News, Kinch recalled how he started working in a New Orleans restaurant at the age of 15. "From the first day, I knew I loved it and I didn't ever want to leave it," Kinch was quoted as saying. One of Kinch's best friends in high school also had an obsession—all he would talk about was becoming a trumpet player. Kinch's friend was another teenager named Wynton Marsalis. While Kinch obsessed about food, Marsalis was obsessed with music.

No one ever accused Qingdao-based Haier Group, the world's fourth-largest maker of white goods, and its charismatic CEO and founder, 59-year-old Zhang Ruimin, of not thinking big. And its Olympics Haier Experience Center, a giant bubble-shaped building set up in Beijing's Chaoyang Park during the recent Olympic Games that featured its futuristic "U-Home" technology, certainly highlighted that propensity. The Center was designed to allow visitors to experience a day in a person's life in the future, all showcasing Haier's vision of the wired home, including nifty appliances like a refrigerator that will message one's mobile phone when it runs low on milk, and an "intelligent bed" that "will shut down the lights, the television, and close the curtains," said a company press release on Aug. 6th. Says CEO Zhang: "You must be connected to the world during the information era. We hope through this set of solutions, we can enable everybody, especially the Chinese, to enter the information era."

Enterprise software, which has gone from running on the computer to being hosted in a corporate data center, is now moving out to nebulous pools of servers called clouds. As computing clouds become part of the corporate information technology environment, making sure software hosted in the cloud is delivered as quickly and efficiently as possible will become increasingly important. Whether it's an external cloud such as those offered by Amazon.com (AMZN) or an internal cloud operated by a Wall Street investment bank, connecting the applications running on those pools of computing power to the employees using them is going to be an integral part of a company's wide area network, or WAN. And that has venture firms taking a fresh look at an already mature industry known as WAN optimization.

My IT company generally has a casual atmosphere that our twentysomething employees enjoy. However, these days T-shirts and flip-flops are the norm, and I feel like our professionalism is lacking. How can I get people looking nicer without alienating my staff? — A.N., Irvine, Calif.
 Your situation is not unusual. In a recent survey by Los Angeles-based temporary employment agency OfficeTeam, only 4% of employees ages 21 to 28 said they preferred business attire at work. Most said they would rather dress in business casual style or wear jeans and sneakers, although 93% said they recognized that their attire influences their chances of being promoted.

Instead of the traditional summertime pursuits of canoeing, hiking, and lanyard making, a number of teenage students across the country spent part of their summer participating in workshops, staring at computers, and attending seminars at business camp. Forget the sun dappled lake and lumpy bunk beds. In recent years a number of camps (BusinessWeek.com, 4/14/06) have cropped up designed specifically to nurture fledgling teenage entrepreneurs and give them real-world business experience. At one time, it might have sounded absurd to spend part of one's summer indoors creating a business plan, mock ad campaigns, or running numbers into a viable budget. That is no longer the case. Many business-themed camps are sponsored or funded in part by large businesses such as Goldman Sachs (GS) or nonprofits such as the YWCA. Most last for a week or two and focus on one part of the population and/or a specific area of business.

S&P RAISES RECOMMENDATIUON ON SHARES OF SANDISK CORP TO HOLD FROM SELL (SNDK; 17.06): SNDK shares are sharply higher this morning following an unconfirmed Wall Street Journal report that Samsung is considering various tie-up options, including acquisition or alliance, with SNDK. We believe a tie-up could strengthen the positions of both in the NAND flash industry. However, we see antitrust concerns as a potential issue, since a combined company would have over 50% of the NAND market. We are raising our target price by $11 to $24 based on an enterprise value-to-sales ratio of 1.0, in line with similar M&A transactions, on our 2009 revenue projection. -R. Khalid, CFA

You know, when I think about the fate of Fannie and Freddie, I am reminded of the fate  of Schrodinger’s cat. Erwin Schrodinger was an Austrian physicist in the 1930s who proposed a thought experiment to illustrate the pecularities of quantum mechanics. Imagine a cat in a sealed box with a flask of poison. You cannot observe whether the cat has drunk the poison. Is the cat alive or dead? (Don’t worry, no cats were harmed—a ‘thought experiment’ means that it was never actually done) According to most interpretations of quantum mechanics, as long as the box is sealed, that’s not the right question. Until we open the box, the best we can  say is that there’s a certain probability that the cat is dead and a certain probability that it’s alive. In some sense, the states of “cat alive” and “cat dead” exist at the same time.

A late goal from Antonio Di Natale gave defending champion Italy a 2-1 win over Cyprus in World Cup soccer qualifying, as England, Germany, Spain and Portugal also won. France, runner-up to Italy two years ago, lost to Austria 3-1 as European qualifying for the 2010 World Cup in South Africa got under way.

Western Australia's uranium mining industry is set for a boost as the latest poll shows that a swing against the Labor state government in today's election may convert into a win for the pro-uranium Liberal Party. The latest opinion poll by Newspoll, carried out Sept. 2-4, showed a 4 percent swing against the Labor government across the state, the Australian newspaper reported today. That may be enough for the opposition Liberal Party to win the 9 seats it needs to unseat the government, the newspaper said.





















Nowadays, everyone wants a smartphone. Why? The going assumption is that Apple’s iPhone’s has reinvigorated the smartphone market. Everyone wants an iPhone in order to look cool, and to be able to surf the Web and answer e-mails. That’s certainly true. But there is also another reason why U.S. consumers snapped up 9 million smartphones between January and July — that’s up 84% year over year, according to consultancy NPD Group. Simply put, smartphones are getting cheaper.

Despite purposely scheduling at the same time as the venerable Demo conference in San Diego, the TechCrunch50 startup conference is packed with an overflow crowd in San Francisco. The show, put on by TechCrunch’s Mike Arrington and Mahalo’s Jason Calacanis, attracts the cream of the Web 2.0 crowd. They’ll be blanketing this thing with wall-to-wall blog coverage, which I won’t be able to do because I’m not here all three days. So this time, I’m trying something new (for me): I’m Twittering my running thoughts under my Twitter name robh56, so follow me there, and if I see something that won’t fit in 140 characters, I’ll post it here. You can also watch the conference live at the Techcrunch50.com site.

Updated 1:28 PM (EDT) The clock is ticking for Lehman Brothers. Lehman shares plunged more than 15% in early afternoon trading, as investors began worrying anew about the firm’s ability to raise billions in badly needed capital.

Normally when an unpopular ceo gets the boot, the company’s share price climbs in a massive sigh of relief. Kerry Killinger, ceo of troubled thrift Washington Mutual, officially got fired today. But Wamu stock is down 18% to $3.50. Wamu’s drop is even more surprisingly coming amidst what should be good news for the mortgage industry. The federal government is taking over industry giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. While that means potentially huge losses for the shareholders of those firms, it is intended to be a signal that the administration is taking serious steps to minimize the fallout of the mortgage crisis. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson says the goal of the bailout is to prevent an escalation in foreclosures and to keep mortgage rates from soaring. Stocks in general are up on the news.

Douglas Ruskoff writes a very provocative blog post about Guiliani and Palin’s repudiation of community organizing. He goes on to write in a very impassioned way that he believes that the motivation underlying this rejection could really hurt our government. But what strikes me is how strange it is that these politicians should be making fun of the very same urge that, through social networking, blogging, twittering, and sharing photos and videos is transforming our societal connections, business approaches, and intellectual perspectives. I hadn’t thought of it before. But there is this dichotomy there that’s disturbing. Because online, for the most part, it’s a celebration of the wisdom of the crowds, and crowdsourcing, and social networking.

To more effectively identify new business opportunities, you have to dig deep and ask lots of questions. Take a step back, and use these questions as a guide to help you create or adapt business strategies to meet the changing needs of your market. • What frustrates customers or users of this industry? Some of the best ideas come from looking at things that bug you, including not having enough options or selection, not getting the product or service quickly enough, and poor quality.

Here’s a wonderful post by Irving Wladawsky-Berger, who led IBM’s Internet development (among many other big jobs in a 37-year career at Big Blue). He talks here about how blogging fits into his life.

So it sounds like in a story in the Wall Street Journal, which says the Justice Dept. has just hired a hotshot litigator to look into Google’s power in online advertising. The story says this is the strongest sign yet that the government may try to quash a deal in which Google proposes to run its search ads on Yahoo’s sites. But it raises the possibility that Justice could pursue a broader review or challenge to Google’s growing power. Silicon Alley Insider thinks that’s what tanked Google’s stock by about 5% Monday, though it appears the story came out after the market closed. In any case, I don’t expect a near-term impact on Google beyond what happens with the Yahoo deal, because I would think Justice will have to work a good long time to amass enough of a case to take a serious action.

The following is a list of companies whose shares may rise or fall in Australia. This preview includes news announced after markets closed Friday. Prices are from Friday's close unless otherwise stated. The S&P/ASX 200 Index futures contract due in September advanced 0.7 percent to 4,910 at 6:59 a.m. in Sydney. The Bank of New York Australia ADR Index slipped 0.1 percent in New York.

Why replace a perfectly good Web browser like Firefox, Internet Explorer, or Safari with Google Inc.'s new Chrome? Because you want something simpler, a little faster, and less prone to crashing. Google, the search engine giant based in Mountain View, California, released the beta, or test, version of Chrome last week, a Web browser that competes directly with market leader Internet Explorer 7, or IE7, from Microsoft Corp. Chrome also takes on Mozilla's Firefox 3 and Apple Inc.'s Safari 3 browsers; both have loyal followings but aren't as widely used as IE.

McLaren's Lewis Hamilton won today's Belgian Formula One Grand Prix after Ferrari's Kimi Raikkonen, who had dominated the race, spun off in treacherous conditions as the pair dueled for the lead. Hamilton, who took the race after Raikkonen crashed into a barrier on the penultimate lap at Spa-Francorchamps, extends his lead in the drivers' championship to eight points from Ferrari's Felipe Massa with five races remaining. Massa was second today, 14 seconds behind the winner.

That’s what advertisers think, according to the trade group Association of National Advertisers. The ANA on Sunday filed a letter to the Justice Dept., recommending against the deal under which Yahoo will run Google ads on some of its Web pages in hopes of generating more revenue than it could with its own ads. The ANA is worried that the deal will “diminish competition, increase concentration of market power, limit choices currently available and potentially raise prices to advertisers for high quality, affordable search advertising.” When the deal was announced, I heard the same worries from advertisers, agencies, and search marketing firms. Indeed, that concern is why the two companies voluntarily held off for a few months to let the government review the deal, even though they believe the nonexclusive commercial agreement is not legally subject to review.

The following is a list of companies whose stocks may have unusual price changes in Paris. Symbols are in parentheses after company names and prices are from the last close. France's CAC 40 Index dropped 107.35, or 2.5 percent, to 4,196.66 in Paris. The SBF 120 Index also declined 2.5 percent.

The Federal National Mortgage Association (FNM), nicknamed Fannie Mae, was a depression-era institution created to make homeownership affordable for the working-class. Freddie Mac (fre) was created in 1970 to provide liquidity, stability and affordability to the housing market. Today, Fannie and Freddie guarantee or own over half of U.S. mortgages valued at $5 trillion. But with the credit crunch, too many of those loans started going into default, hurting the companies’ financial reserves and driving up borrowing costs.

McLaren's Lewis Hamilton was stripped of his win in today's Belgian Formula One Grand Prix after race officials imposed a 25-second penalty. Hamilton was demoted to third because of a passing move on Ferrari's Kimi Raikkonen on lap 42 of 44 as cars slid around on the rain-swept track. The International Automobile Federation, Formula One's governing body, decided he gained an advantage by cutting across the Spa-Francorchamps circuit's ``Bus Stop'' chicane.

The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K. media. Keegan Return?

I’ve been offline for two weeks, spending much off it in the Southwest, outside of broadband range. Returning to the theater of our politics is a jolt, with most of the discourse beside the point. We’re in the toilet. How do we get out? That’s the big question. The old, conventional economics of more spending or more tax cuts just don’t cut it. We have to begin thinking about a new field—Innovation Economics—and the policies associated with it on a state and national level. There is a big conference in Washington DC on Sept. 25 called “Innovation Economics for the Next Administration.” Go if you can. It’s important.

Investor Hombergh/De Pundert Group said it retracted an offer for Dutch printing company RSDB NV after failing to secure financing. HHBV couldn't arrange ``committed funding required to declare the offer unconditional in time,'' it said in an e-mailed statement late yesterday. The investor had said it would bid 40 euros a share for RSDB to create a Europe-wide printing company.

Up to now, the McCain and Obama campaigns have been just feisty complained about one another’s ads, using words like “distortion,” “Misleading,” etc. But when it comes to the McCain/Palin campaigns continued boosting of the story that Alaska Governor Sarah Palin “said No” to the infamous “Bridge to Nowhere” (This was a bridge from mainland Alaska to an island that would have cost Federal taxpayers hundreds of millions, the Obama campaign has called it an outright “LIE.”

If TV ratings for political convention speeches is any indicator, voter turnout in November should be sky-high. The GOP presidential nominee John McCain had a viewership last Thursday night of 39 million, edging Democratic counterpart Obama (38.4 million), and McCain’s suddenly famous running mate, Sarah Palin (37.2 million).

Eighth-ranked West Virginia was upset by East Carolina 24-3, the second straight defeat of a ranked opponent by the Pirates. Quarterback Patrick Pinkney was 22-28 with 236 with a touchdown for East Carolina, and running back Jonathan Williams scored two touchdowns and ran for 69 yards. The Mountaineers, playing on the road in Greenville, North Carolina, lost two fumbles and scored their only points on a 26-yard field goal in the second quarter.

With the nation riveted on what the next President will do, the current Administration showed on Sept. 7 that it's not ready to take its hands off the economy's steering wheel quite yet. The Bush Administration announced that it had seized control of Fannie Mae (FNM) and Freddie Mac (FRE), two huge but dysfunctional companies whose financial difficulties were weighing down the U.S. housing market and threatening global financial upheaval. It was a dramatic move for the Republican Administration. The two privately owned companies are in effect being nationalized, something that's ordinarily anathema to conservatives. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson, who announced the action (BusinessWeek, 9/7/08) at a rare Sunday news conference, justified it by saying that Fannie and Freddie are so "large and interwoven" into the global financial system that "a failure of either would cause turmoil around the world."

I have been hearing about “electronic paper” for business documents for about as long as I can remember, but none has come close to making the grade. A new reader from Plastic Logic could be the one. At DEMOfall today, the company showed off a reader about the size of a sheet of notebook paper and thinner than a legal pad that can be loaded with a broad variety of business documents.

Sept. 7, 2008 
Statement by Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. on Treasury and Federal Housing Finance Agency Action to Protect Financial Markets and Taxpayers

The Market's Labor Pains

Lisa Bevill took on the role of director of international admissions at IE Business School in Madrid (previously known as Instituto de Empresa) earlier this year. A graduate of the international MBA program at IE, she also has professional experience in the U.S., Germany, and Spain. Within the past three years, applications to IE have increased more than 20%, Bevill says. During the last application cycle, 30% of the applicants were accepted into the international MBA program. This year, around 300 students—more than 90% of them from outside Spain—will be enrolling in the international MBA program. For the first time, demand to attend is so great that a second group of students will begin classes next April.

On Sept. 7, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services said it affirmed its long-term AAA and short-term A-1+ senior unsecured debt ratings on Fannie Mae (FNM) and Freddie Mac (FRE). The outlook is stable. At the same time, S&P lowered its "risk-to-the-government standalone issuer" credit ratings on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to R (regulatory supervision) from A- and withdrew the ratings. It also revised the CreditWatch listing of the BBB+ subordinated debt ratings on these entities to positive from negative. In addition, it lowered the preferred stock ratings to C from BBB- and removed the ratings from CreditWatch with negative implications. The subordinated debt and preferred stock ratings were originally placed on CreditWatch on Aug. 26, 2008.

In a recent TV ad for Black Cloud ammunition, a frantic flock of ducks darts around an orange sky as a heavy-metal guitar riff chugs ominously in the background. Cut to black. A slogan pops up, each word punctuated with a shotgun blast: Drop. Ducks. Like. Rain. The spots, currently airing on Versus cable network, are remarkably brash for the otherwise moribund ammunition market. The goal for Black Cloud's maker, the $4.6 billion defense contractor Alliant Techsystems (ATK), is to coax more dollars out of the shrinking ranks of hunters using brightly colored boxes, loud ads, and promises of premium-grade ammo made better by "lethal science." What ATK is trying to sell is, in short, a deadlier shot. "A lot of people look at ammo as a commodity," says Mark DeYoung, president of ATK's Armament Systems. "We've really gone to high-performance projectiles." That mindset helps explain why Minneapolis-based ATK has become the country's largest ammo manufacturer less than a decade after entering the market. The maker of space rockets, TNT, and warheads pushed its way into small-caliber ammunition in 2000 with an aggressive bid to run the U.S. Army's Lake City Ammunition Plant in Independence, Mo., that made it the military's biggest ammo supplier. It has since moved swiftly into the civilian sphere, wooing hunters and police officers with creative marketing and bold promises of better performance. Military sales make up almost 70% of revenues for ATK's $1.6 billion Armament Systems Div., one of ATK's fastest-ýgrowing units. On Aug. 7 the unit reported a 32% increase in sales for the last quarter, to $442 million, while profits jumped 53%, to $44 million. The push into premium-priced ammo comes at a key moment. Wars in Afghanistan and Iraq have sent demand skyrocketing. Lake City now pumps out 1.4 billion rounds a year—a level not seen since the Vietnam War—helping ATK shares to double in five years, to around 106. But a drop in troop levels could halt ATK's big run: "The perception is that they are very tied to Iraq," says UBS (UBS) analyst David Strauss. Getting higher profits from the consumer segment could be tough. A round of ammo, or a cartridge, is generally made up of a brass casing packed with a primer, gunpowder, and a bullet. The raw materials used to make those components—especially copper and lead—have risen dramatically in cost over the past few years, forcing all ammo makers to raise prices. While the hunting market may be shrinking, those who have stuck with it spend an average of $1,829 a year on their hobby. Dolph Varner of Columbia, S.C., lays out at least that much making hunting trips to Nebraska, Louisiana, and Canada. Varner buys Federal Premium ammunition, ATK's top-of-the-line brand, which can cost up to $70 for a box of 20. (ATK's Federal Cape Shock brand, for big-game animals, can cost more than $200 a box.) "Serious sportsmen do not tolerate people who cannot make a clean kill," says Varner. That's the kind of attitude ATK likes to play off in its advertising. While companies such as Remington and Winchester Ammunition still sell their wares in bland boxes, ATK is all about buzz. Federal Premium boxes show pictures of the type of animal each round is designed to kill, from squirrels to mule deer. The box for ATK's Fusion brand is bright orange with flames encircling the brand name. Black Cloud shotgun shells claim to "wreak havoc on impact." They're endorsed by TV duck hunter Phil "the Duck Commander" Robertson, who can be seen in a Black Cloud spot knee-deep in a swamp covered in grime, grimacing menacingly as he clutches his shotgun. Laggards just a few years ago, the ATK brands together now outsell all other commercial ammo brands, besting Winchester and Remington. "They are great marketers," says Gary Buescher, vice-president for hunting and firearms at outdoor retail chain Gander Mountain (GMTN), which has kiosks at some of its 113 stores showing loops of Federal ammo being used to take down wildebeests in Africa and other animals. ATK also has in-store charts to show how much weight its bullets retain upon impact (the less it breaks apart, the more deadly it is). ATK's biggest source of demand remains the military. Production of .50-caliber rounds has increased twelvefold since the U.S. invaded Iraq in early 2003. Often fitted with explosive-tipped bullets, the rounds are usually fed into heavy machine guns mounted on Humvees. One .50-caliber shot can pierce an armored vehicle and blow it up. "The guys in Iraq just love them," says a former U.S. Marine who works at Lake City. As for the election, ATK Chief Executive Daniel Murphy claims he's "not at all concerned" with a party shift—though he expects a "change of priorities." Along with hawking upscale bullets to hunters, ATK has rolled out accessories including rifle scopes, clothing, and gun bags to help offset any decline in military sales.





















In a recent TV ad for Black Cloud ammunition, a frantic flock of ducks darts around an orange sky as a heavy-metal guitar riff chugs ominously in the background. Cut to black. A slogan pops up, each word punctuated with a shotgun blast: Drop. Ducks. Like. Rain. The spots, currently airing on Versus cable network, are remarkably brash for the otherwise moribund ammunition market. The goal for Black Cloud's maker, the $4.6 billion defense contractor Alliant Techsystems (ATK), is to coax more dollars out of the shrinking ranks of hunters using brightly colored boxes, loud ads, and promises of premium-grade ammo made better by "lethal science." What ATK is trying to sell is, in short, a deadlier shot. "A lot of people look at ammo as a commodity," says Mark DeYoung, president of ATK's Armament Systems. "We've really gone to high-performance projectiles." That mindset helps explain why Minneapolis-based ATK has become the country's largest ammo manufacturer less than a decade after entering the market. The maker of space rockets, TNT, and warheads pushed its way into small-caliber ammunition in 2000 with an aggressive bid to run the U.S. Army's Lake City Ammunition Plant in Independence, Mo., that made it the military's biggest ammo supplier. It has since moved swiftly into the civilian sphere, wooing hunters and police officers with creative marketing and bold promises of better performance. Military sales make up almost 70% of revenues for ATK's $1.6 billion Armament Systems Div., one of ATK's fastest-ýgrowing units. On Aug. 7 the unit reported a 32% increase in sales for the last quarter, to $442 million, while profits jumped 53%, to $44 million. The push into premium-priced ammo comes at a key moment. Wars in Afghanistan and Iraq have sent demand skyrocketing. Lake City now pumps out 1.4 billion rounds a year—a level not seen since the Vietnam War—helping ATK shares to double in five years, to around 106. But a drop in troop levels could halt ATK's big run: "The perception is that they are very tied to Iraq," says UBS (UBS) analyst David Strauss. Getting higher profits from the consumer segment could be tough. A round of ammo, or a cartridge, is generally made up of a brass casing packed with a primer, gunpowder, and a bullet. The raw materials used to make those components—especially copper and lead—have risen dramatically in cost over the past few years, forcing all ammo makers to raise prices. While the hunting market may be shrinking, those who have stuck with it spend an average of $1,829 a year on their hobby. Dolph Varner of Columbia, S.C., lays out at least that much making hunting trips to Nebraska, Louisiana, and Canada. Varner buys Federal Premium ammunition, ATK's top-of-the-line brand, which can cost up to $70 for a box of 20. (ATK's Federal Cape Shock brand, for big-game animals, can cost more than $200 a box.) "Serious sportsmen do not tolerate people who cannot make a clean kill," says Varner. That's the kind of attitude ATK likes to play off in its advertising. While companies such as Remington and Winchester Ammunition still sell their wares in bland boxes, ATK is all about buzz. Federal Premium boxes show pictures of the type of animal each round is designed to kill, from squirrels to mule deer. The box for ATK's Fusion brand is bright orange with flames encircling the brand name. Black Cloud shotgun shells claim to "wreak havoc on impact." They're endorsed by TV duck hunter Phil "the Duck Commander" Robertson, who can be seen in a Black Cloud spot knee-deep in a swamp covered in grime, grimacing menacingly as he clutches his shotgun. Laggards just a few years ago, the ATK brands together now outsell all other commercial ammo brands, besting Winchester and Remington. "They are great marketers," says Gary Buescher, vice-president for hunting and firearms at outdoor retail chain Gander Mountain (GMTN), which has kiosks at some of its 113 stores showing loops of Federal ammo being used to take down wildebeests in Africa and other animals. ATK also has in-store charts to show how much weight its bullets retain upon impact (the less it breaks apart, the more deadly it is). ATK's biggest source of demand remains the military. Production of .50-caliber rounds has increased twelvefold since the U.S. invaded Iraq in early 2003. Often fitted with explosive-tipped bullets, the rounds are usually fed into heavy machine guns mounted on Humvees. One .50-caliber shot can pierce an armored vehicle and blow it up. "The guys in Iraq just love them," says a former U.S. Marine who works at Lake City. As for the election, ATK Chief Executive Daniel Murphy claims he's "not at all concerned" with a party shift—though he expects a "change of priorities." Along with hawking upscale bullets to hunters, ATK has rolled out accessories including rifle scopes, clothing, and gun bags to help offset any decline in military sales.

These days, the campaign news all seems to be about Sarah Palin, Fannie and Freddie and, of course, the economy. But it wasn’t so long ago that health-care was the hot topic. Chances are, it’s still out there: A CBS News/New York Times poll dated Aug. 20 — the latest we could find — found that health-care tied with terrorism and national security among the issues most important to voters, trailing the economy and jobs, and a second-place tie between the Iraq war and gas prices.

Today at 10 AM, SAP, the business software provider, announced that its SAP NetWeaver Fund will invest in InnoCentive, the Web site where people post engineering and design problems to the public and offer cash rewards for solutioins. InnoCentive created a SAP-branded “pavilion” within InnoCentive, basically a site within the site. There, to initiate their partnership, SAP posted three challenges related to using social networking for corporate purposes, handling web server issues, and creating a video that would effectively illustrate how online communities of software developers are beneficial. The total reward money for the three solutions is $25,000. (SAP didn’t break down how each individual challenge solver will be rewarded.)

It could have been worse. Legg Mason fund manager Bill Miller, who is known for quirky and contrarian picks,  bet heavily on Freddie Mac earlier this year, and with the government’s takeover of the mortgage giant, the stock is nearly FRE.

Parexel International Corp. a tester of experimental medicines for drugmakers, reduced its earnings forecast while raising its revenue projection for the 2009 fiscal year after completing its purchase of computer software-maker ClinPhone Plc. Parexel anticipates diluted earnings a share of 20 cents to 21 cents in the first quarter ending Sept. 30. That includes the effects of the purchase and a one-time charge of about 2 cents a diluted share from writing off unamortized loan fees and interest rate hedges, the Waltham, Massachusetts-based company said in a statement on PR Newswire. Previously, Parexel forecast quarterly earnings of 23 cents to 25 cents a share.

What message does your work environment send to employees and customers about your philosophy and approach to innovation and change? Do you want clients to view your business as being at the forefront of your industry, and yet people in your organization resist change and can’t quickly solve clients’ problems in new ways? An innovative business relies on every member to be on the lookout for trends and shifts in the marketplace. If only the entrepreneur or the management team searches for new opportunities, the business will find it nearly impossible to keep up with change, let alone grow. In fact, successful small businesses need every member’s creative contributions to keep them on the innovative edge of the industry and marketplace. So how can you create an innovation-friendly environment that encourages the continual flow of ideas and embraces change? • Provide as much information as possible to employees. Knowledge stimulates creativity, and people cannot solve problems they don’t know exist. Tell employees and team members about problems; don’t try to solve everything yourself.

Viacom Inc.'s DreamWorks LLC and Paramount Pictures studios and Steven Spielberg were accused of infringing the story that formed the basis for the classic film ``Rear Window'' in their 2007 movie ``Disturbia.'' In a lawsuit filed today in Manhattan federal court, the Sheldon Abend Revocable Trust, owner of the rights to ``Rear Window,'' claims Viacom and other defendants ``made back-door use of the `Rear Window' Story'' in ``Disturbia'' ``without paying compensation.''

For John McCain and Barack Obama, the race for the White House is a battle of the old and the new -- and it has little to do with age. The U.S. presidential election is shaping up as a contest over the old America of Ohio's shuttered factories and Michigan's fading auto plants, as well as the newer America that loops from Northern Virginia's suburbs through the Sun Belt and west to Colorado.

The following stocks may have unusual price changes in European markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are from the last close. The Dow Jones Stoxx 600 gained 3.3 percent to 281.3. The Dow Jones Stoxx 50 Index rose 3.3 percent to 2,846.46. The Euro Stoxx 50 Index, a benchmark for nations using the euro, added 3.1 percent to 3,284.12.

The following is a list of companies whose shares may have unusual price changes in central European markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses after company names. Share prices are from the last close. The NTX Index of 30 companies in the region fell 3.9 percent to 1,519.6. Austria's ATX Index dropped 2.5 percent, the Czech PX Index lost 3.8 percent and Hungary's BUX Index declined 3.5 percent. Poland's WIG20 Index sank 4.1 percent.

U.S. Senate Banking Committee Chairman Christopher Dodd said he is asking Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson to testify this week on the federal government's takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Dodd, a Connecticut Democrat, in a conference call with reporters today said he wants to explore the ramifications of the government's decision to place the government-sponsored enterprises under conservatorship, removing their chief executive officers and eliminating dividends.

After Congress stepped up its inquiry of how Internet companies collect data for ad targeting, Jules Jules Polonetsky, AOL’s privacy officer predicted that we would see companies scrambling to pacify legislators. Google’s decision to cut in half the amount of time it holds anonomyized search data is a direct result of that scrutiny, along with the investigations by the EU and probably the U.S. Justice Department’s inquiry (reported by the WSJ). It comes after other privacy changes they’ve made.

Vote counting resumes in Western Australia today after the incumbent Labor Party and the pro-uranium mining Liberal Party failed to claim enough seats to form a majority government. The Nationals hold the key, with party leader Brendon Grylls declining to immediately form a coalition government with either party. An accord between Labor and the Nationals would be unprecedented in Western Australia. A hung parliament is possible.

The following companies may have unusual price changes in European trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are from the previous close. The Dow Jones Stoxx 600 tumbled 2.1 percent to 272.24, the lowest close since July 16. The Dow Jones Stoxx 50 Index dropped

Thailand's SET Index rose 8.24, or 1.3 percent, to 654.04 as of 10:14 a.m. local time, headed for its steepest climb since Aug. 11. Only 14 stocks in the 476-member benchmark index declined.

Indian stocks rose, driving the benchmark index to its biggest gain in more than a month, after the nation won the right to buy nuclear-energy supplies for the first time in three decades. Larsen & Toubro Ltd., India's biggest engineering company, and Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd., India's biggest power-equipment maker, both gained more than 5 percent on speculation they will win orders for power-generation equipment. Stocks also advanced after the U.S. government's takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac buoyed confidence the global economy can weather the subprime mortgage crisis.

The following companies may have unusual price changes in Canadian trading today. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and prices are from the close on Sept. 5. The Standard & Poor's/TSX Composite Index added 2.28 points, or less than 0.1 percent, to 12,816.42.

The following is a list of companies whose shares may have unusual price changes in U.K. and Irish markets today. Stock symbols are in parentheses and prices are from the last market close. The benchmark FTSE 100 Index fell 121.4, or 2.3 percent, to 5,240.70. The FTSE All-Share Index dropped 2.2 percent, and Ireland's ISEQ Index fell 3.7 percent.

Thailand's SET Index rose 19.86, or 3.1 percent, to 665.66 at the close, its steepest climb since Aug. 7. Five shares gained for each one that dropped.

A fraud that led to the convictions of five insurance executives cost American International Group Inc. shareholders as much as $1.4 billion, U.S. prosecutors said Sept. 5 in a court filing. Four former General Reinsurance Corp. executives, including ex-Chief Executive Officer Ronald Ferguson and ex-Chief Financial Officer Elizabeth Monrad, were convicted with a former AIG executive in February of fraud and conspiracy charges. If the judge agrees with the government's loss calculation, the five could face life in prison when they are sentenced.

Why replace a perfectly good Web browser like Firefox, Internet Explorer, or Safari with Google Inc.'s new Chrome? Because you want something simpler, a little faster, and less prone to crashing. Google, the search engine giant based in Mountain View, California, released the beta, or test, version of Chrome last week, a Web browser that competes directly with market leader Internet Explorer 7, or IE7, from Microsoft Corp. Chrome also takes on Mozilla's Firefox 3 and Apple Inc.'s Safari 3 browsers; both have loyal followings but aren't as widely used as IE.

Marissa Mayer, Google’s vice president of search products & user experience, introduced a new Google feature Monday, a project to bring historical print newspaper archives online. Using the scanning technology it has used for books, plus some new techniques, Google has joined with a number of newspapers to digitize their archives. From the Official Google Blog’s post: I got a chance to sit down with Mayer after her presentation at the TechCrunch50 conference. Here’s my video with her, complete with the noise of the conference in the background (sorry), in which she talks about the project and then talks about Google’s challenges and the future of search. I also added a short second video on her thoughts on Google’s 10th birthday, which happened Sunday or, depending on what seminal event you’re counting, will happen later this month.

Micro Focus International Plc, the U.K. business-software maker whose clients include Accenture Ltd., dropped in London trading after an investor sold a 12.5 percent stake. Micro Focus lost 10.75 pence, or 3.7 percent, to 280 pence, cutting the Newbury, England-based company's market value to 562 million pounds ($990 million).

French stocks surged, led by banks and insurers, as the U.S. takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac spurred hopes that a worsening of the global credit crisis can be averted. Dexia SA, the world's biggest lender to local governments, and Axa SA, Europe's second-largest insurer, led gains.

South Africa captain Graeme Smith and his Sri Lankan counterpart Mahela Jayawardene are among the four nominees for the International Cricket Council's player of the year award. Smith's teammate Dale Steyn and West Indies batsman Shivnarine Chanderpaul complete the list for the top award announced today by the ICC, with a new winner ensured of lifting the Sir Garfield Sobers Trophy.

Target (TGT) is known for selling housewares by forward-thinking designers like Philippe Starck. What's less known is the Minneapolis retailer's secret weapon for finding such talent. Along with in-house trend-watchers, Target works with Culture & Commerce, a small New York design agency, to scout for innovative designers with potential mass-market appeal. The firm is the reason Los Angeles designer Sami Hayek's $20 bedspreads are stars of Target's back-to-school campaign. "They give me access to companies that I would have to take a lot of time to even get an appointment with," says Hayek.

The Swiss army renewed a contract for Victorinox AG, Switzerland's largest maker of the iconic knife, to make pocket knives for its soldiers rather than a foreign manufacturer. Seven knife makers, some of them Swiss and others foreign, took part in bidding for the order starting in February, the government said today on its Web site. The Swiss army will spend

Tom Brady's season may have ended after seven minutes. The New England quarterback injured his left knee in the first quarter of yesterday's season-opening win over the Kansas City Chiefs. The National Football League's reigning Most Valuable Player will probably miss the rest of the season with a torn anterior cruciate ligament, according to media outlets including ESPN, Yahoo Sports and Fox Sports.

By Peter SvenssonThe Associated Press
      
 Bluetooth wireless headsets for mobile phones are baffling: We're supposed to control them with a couple of unmarked buttons and get feedback from a single indicator light. What is the headset trying to say when the LED is blinking that particular way? How do I connect it to a new phone? Do I press the big button or the small button? Or both at once? The user interface is as cryptic as an alien artifact. In August, BlueAnt Wireless launched the first headset that is unmistakably from Planet Earth. The $130 V1 headset recognizes spoken English commands and responds, also in English.

The outcome of elections in the state of Western Australia is in limbo after the incumbent Labor Party and the pro-uranium mining Liberal Party both failed to claim enough seats to form a majority government. The Nationals hold the key, with leader Brendon Grylls using his party's four seats as a bargaining chip during talks with Premier Alan Carpenter and opposition leader Colin Barnett, which both want to form a coalition government with his rural-based party. Grylls will hold final meetings with both party leaders on Sept. 14, the West Australian reported today.

Hall of Fame basketball coach Don Haskins, best known for winning the 1966 college championship at Texas Western with an all-black starting five, died yesterday. He was 78. Officials at the school, now known as the University of Texas at El Paso, didn't disclose a cause of death in a news release. He died at his El Paso home surrounded by friends and family, the school said.

Five years after completing the `Serena Slam' by winning all four tennis Grand Slam titles back-to-back, Serena Williams targeted a new period of dominance following her victory at the U.S. Open yesterday. ``It doesn't stop here,'' Williams told a press conference after beating Jelena Jankovic of Serbia 6-4, 7-5 at the National Tennis Center in New York.

The stock market finally broke down with a vengeance on Thursday, Sept. 4, and it appears that the process of testing the mid-July lows is almost upon us. Interestingly, the recent weakness has been led by the leaders (commodity stocks) of the last bull market which happen to be the sectors that held up the best during the early stages of the bear market. Many times, when the leaders finally get hit during a bear market, it represents the final dive of the stock market. So far, the weakest sectors and those that led the downside earlier in the bear market (financials and consumer discretionary stocks), are holding up relatively well and have quite a distance to fall before they are back to their mid-July lows. While it doesn't feel like it quite yet, this minor relative outperformance and stabilization by the financials and consumer discretionary stocks may be a sign that once this current down leg is complete, it could be the final leg of the bear market.

The New York Mets avoided a three-game sweep by beating the Philadelphia Phillies 6-3 yesterday to split a double-header and push their lead in the National League East back to two games. Carlos Delgado hit two home runs and drove in four runs, while Johan Santana pitched into the eighth inning to lead the Mets (80-63) to a win in the second of two games against their division rivals.

Rafael Nadal couldn't match recent successes in his first tournament as the world's No. 1 tennis player. His 6-2, 7-6 (7-5), 4-6, 6-4 defeat to Andy Murray in the semifinals of the U.S. Open yesterday ended the Spaniard's quest to win three of the four Grand Slam tournaments this year.

I had ridiculous computer problems yesterday, which prevented me from weighing in on this in a timely fashion. But, speaking strictly as a viewer, the news that MSNBC will replace Keith Olbermann and Chris Matthews as anchors of live political events means that we’ll go without some of the most entertaining television of this year. I’m serious. They were a riot. The chemistry between Olbermann and Matthews was so patently unstable, so clearly off—and Olbermann’s body language so frequently seemed to telegraph serious discomfort--that you had the sense that anything could happen. You just had to sit around and wait for the smoke to gather and, then, finally, for something to explode.  Which it did, often. I wondered a few weeks back on Twitter when they’d come to blows on-air. I doubt this a terribly original thought, or even particularly possible, given the genteel confines og a news set. But then I’d just seen this, which in the context of a news channel is a bit jarring:

Western companies are pushing to acquire vast stretches of African land to meet the world's biofuel needs. Local farmers and governments are being showered with promises. But is this just another form of economic colonialism? Everything will turn out alright. Correction: everything is going to get better. There will be new roads, a new school, a pharmacy, even a proper water supply. Most of all, there will be jobs—5,000, at the very least. "If there are jobs for us, then it's a good thing," says Juma Njagu, 26, who hopes to be able to leave his meager existence as a planter and charburner behind soon.

Americans are losing their jobs at a steady clip. According to a Labor Dept. report released Sept. 5, the unemployment rate hit 6.1% in August, and U.S. payrolls dropped 84,000—with both numbers worse than economists were expecting. After an initial decline, U.S. stocks seemed to shrug off the bad news by posting modest gains on Sept. 5. Nonetheless, there are plenty of reasons a weakening labor market should alarm investors.

Attrition rates in the country's business process outsourcing (BPO) industry are about 8 percent higher than the national average, according to a report by global consulting firm the Hay Group. Annual staff turnover at Indian BPOs stands at 24 percent, ahead of the country's average of 16 percent.

Has the spark gone out of your relationship? Royal Philips Electronics (PHG) reckons it just might have the answer. The $38 billion diversified Dutch giant hopes to give its newly created Consumer Lifestyle business a bit of a buzz with the launch of a new product category known as "relationship care." On Sept. 10, the unit will launch its first new product, initially in Britain and later elsewhere: a range of intimate massagers aimed at couples between the ages of 35 and 55. It's a bold departure for the 117-year-old Dutch company, better known for making everything from home electronics and small appliances to high-tech medical diagnostic systems. But the move is part of Philips' ongoing transformation from a high-volume consumer electronics maker to a design-led company focused on health and well-being—a strategy that Philips Chief Executive Gerard Kleisterlee believes will open up growth opportunities in both developed and developing markets.

Richard Ludlow, 22, turned down a job offer from McKinsey and deferred admission to Harvard Business School to start New York's Academic Earth, an online hub for videos of university lectures and other educational content. Backed by angel funding, he aims both to earn a profit and to improve society—by making academic material widely available online so as to lower the cost of education around the world. In between homework and basketball practice, high school senior Jasmine Lawrence, 17, landed deals with Wal-Mart (WMT) and Whole Foods (WFMI) to carry her line of natural cosmetics. Lawrence started Eden Body Works in Williamstown, N.J., to offer alternatives to chemical products after a bad experience with a hair relaxer.

AND International Publishers NV rose the most in more than two months in Amsterdam trading after saying one of its map products is available for users of Apple Inc.'s iPhone. AND shares rose 50 cents, or 7.2 percent, to 7.49 euros ($10.61), the biggest gain since July 4. The software, called AND Map 2.0 Mobile, helps users find and view locations in the Netherlands on their iPhone, the Rotterdam-based company said in a Market Wire statement today.

Manny Ramirez and his dreadlocks have a lock on L.A. Dodgers' fans' hearts and minds, and are a shoo-in for the Baseball Hall of Fame. But I'd like to nominate him for one more honor: Baseball's MIP—Most Innovative Player. No joke. I take quite seriously the meaning of innovation in its truest form—something that fundamentally changes the way people live, work, and play. For example, adding a button to a cell phone isn't innovation. But if that button turns the cell phone into a camera and that camera changes the way people record their lives and communicate with each other, then that extra button becomes innovation.

Daniel Negari, the 22-year-old founder of the high-end Los Angeles mortgage brokerage Beverly Hills Mint, set a strict ground rule when he hired his first employee last year: "She doesn't refer to me as her son. She's actually not allowed to." The rule helps Negari and his mother, Berta, 47, keep their family and company roles separate. The Negaris are one of a handful of business duos around the country we spoke with to get a sense of what happens when a young entrepreneur hires a parent (BusinessWeek.com, 3/19/07). The consensus is mom and dad can become key employees who bring a combination of loyalty, honesty, and experience that would be hard to find outside of the family. Of course, hiring a parent turns traditional family roles upside down, and that can strain both families and companies if not handled properly.

On AMC's hit show Mad Men, character Peggy Olson is the ambitious secretary-turned-copywriter at fictional Manhattan advertising agency Sterling Cooper. On the show, which is set in 1962, she's excellent at keeping secrets—such as how she bore a child out of wedlock. Off the show, she's more forthcoming. Olson—or rather, a person posing as her—uses the microblogging service Twitter to give fans a peek into her inner thoughts: "The men in the office are headed to the Oyster Bar. I'm going to the library. It doesn't seem quite fair," she wrote on Aug. 25. Olson isn't the only Mad Men character on Twitter. Sterling Cooper creative director Don Draper began it all by issuing his first status update on Aug. 12. A few days later, seductive secretary Joan Holloway joined the fray, writing on Aug. 19, for instance: "Hoping @don_draper will be eating lunch outside of office again today, as he usually does. There's a sale on intimates at Macy's." That was the day Peggy Olson popped up.

It's been a long time since markets in Asia had such a good start to their week. After waking up to news of the U.S. bailout of Fannie Mae (FNM) and Freddie Mac (FRE) announced by Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson on Sunday, investors in the region sent most Asian markets soaring on Sept. 8. Japan's Nikkei index rose 3.3% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng jumped 4.3%. Smaller markets showed even more dramatic gains: Korea's benchmark Kospi index was up 5.15% and Taiwan's Taiex 5.6%. Investors "gained a sense of security," says Tsuyoshi Segawa, equity strategist at Shinko Securities in Tokyo. After Paulson's move, "people expect that the financial crisis in the U.S. will be eased." Markets found reassurance in the plan Paulson unveiled on Sunday that will effectively nationalize the two companies (BusinessWeek.com, 9/7/08), which have $5 trillion in outstanding debt and mortgage-backed securities. The U.S. government is also replacing the chief executives of Fannie and Freddie and, if need be, will invest as much as $100 million in each company.

It wasn't hard to find skeptics on Wall Street on Sept. 8, the day after the federal government's weekend takeover of mortgage giants Fannie Mae (FNM) and Freddie Mac (FRE). Yes, some investors were reassured by the bold, risky move. They hope it hastens the end of the yearlong financial crisis. The stock market, and financial stocks particularly, moved higher on Sept. 8 (with the notable exceptions of Fannie and Freddie, each of which plunged to below $1).

Song Ji Won checks Google to look for English Web documents, but that's once in a long while. When the 20-year-old college student wants quick search results in her everyday life, she goes to her favorite portal: Naver, run by South Korean company NHN, No. 19 on this year's BusinessWeek Asia 50. "None of my friends pays any attention to Google when it comes to information in Korean," says Song. Few would question Google's (GOOG) dominance in the U.S. and Europe, where the company rules Internet search (BusinessWeek.com, 6/17/08). Not so in northeast Asia, particularly in Korea, where Google is just a minnow. The benchmark search engine here is Naver. After eight years of Korean-language search service, Google accounts for less than 2.5% of search page views in Korea. That compares with 74% for Naver, which is expected to earn about $580 million in search-related ads this year.

The gigantic cost of building a full end-to-end fibre next generation broadband network acrosss the UK  may create a compelling case for getting on with rolling out fibre to the cabinet (FTTC) in the next few years instead. The cost of deploying a next-gen fibre network in the UK has been estimated at £5.1bn for FTTC (fibre to the cabinet), compared to £28.8bn for full fibre to the home (FTTH), according to a report from the government's advisory group on broadband, the Broadband Stakeholder Group (BSG).

On Sunday, the U.S. Treasury Dept. announced that it took control of Fannie Mae (FNM) and Freddie Mac (FRE), placing the GSEs under conservatorship. Under the plan, the Federal Housing Finance will assume the power of the board, and the two firms' CEOs will resign after a transitional period. Common and preferred dividends paid by each company have been suspended. NYSE announces that common, preferred stocks of FNM and FRE will be halted during the pre-market and available to all markets for trading at 9:30 am (ET). Citigroup (C), Bank of America (BAC) and JPMorgan (JPM) are among Financial Services sector names getting a boost after the government bailout of mortgage giants Fannie and Freddie.

A Marubeni-led consortium has emerged as the winner of an auction for Singapore's largest power generating company Senoko Power, at an enterprise value of S$3.97 billion ($2.77 billion). The consortium, named Lion Power, includes Japan's Marubeni Corporation with a 30% stake, French firm GDF Suez with 30%, Japan's Kansai Electric Power and Kyushu Electric Power with 15% each, and the Japan Bank for International Cooperation with 10%. It was advised by Macquarie.

S&P DOWNGRADES SHARES OF FREDDIE MAC TO SELL FROM HOLD (FRE; 5.10): The U.S. government seizes control of FRE, stripping shareholders of any governance rights. It will immediately acquire $1 billion of preferred stock. In addition, the government will receive warrants giving it 80% ownership of FRE. Further purchases will be triggered pending capital needs. We believe growing home loss rates will necessitate additional capital injections, further reducing shareholders' stakes. We are reducing our 12-month target price by $4.50 to $0.50, as we believe the government injections will continue to dilute current equity holders. -S. Plesser, K. Cole

The index declined 3.41% (preliminary), losing $378B in market value, and suffering its worst day since Feb 27, 2007, when it declined 3.47% (-3.52% on 3/24/03, -4.15% on 9/2/02). The index is now $3.1 Trillion lighter than it was on October 9, 2007.  
       
      While the VIX remains more than halfway down from it’s January 37.6 high and 17.8 June low at 25.2, the YTD volatility as measured by daily moves of at least 1% in either direction is the 11th most volatile period since 1928 (YTD vs. full year) .  While the early year was nerve-racking with all those worst starts since well before any of us (OK, most) were born, the volatility level declined and then started to pick-up again in those fun-filled summer days of June-July (-9.50% for the S&P 500).  Earnings season begins soon, and with the Q4 updates will come the traditional forward year (2009) downward EPS adjustments.  I expect the volatility to pick-up with EPS surprises and expectations change quickly.

Buying pre-construction comes with risks. For one thing, you’re trusting that the finished product will resemble the model on display in the sales office. A Russian tycoon is accusing the owner of the Plaza Hotel in New York of playing “bait and switch” with the two penthouse condos he agreed to buy “sight unseen” for $53.5 million. He says the condos look more like an “attic” than luxury homes. He is suing El-Ad Properties and demanding it refund his $10.7 million deposit and pay $20 million in damages.

On September 5th Businessweek.com published my interview with KISS front man Gene Simmons in which he talked at length about his business prowess and well, himself. While we weren’t too surprised to see the Q&A picked up around the Web given Simmons’ and his band’s  enduring popularity and his often counter-intuitive thoughts on business, it was a bit surprising to find that the interview had quickly wound its way around the globe too. Since it first went live: A Conversation with KISS’ Gene Simmons has been translated into Russian, Spanish, and picked up by a German site that features nothing but around-the-clock news about KISS. Will be curious to see which border the interview crosses next.

Overall: An Almost Perfect Fit
      Pros: Fuel Economy, Nimble Driving and good cargo space management.
      Cons: No Sat radio available. Honda isn’t always a master of good timing. Remember the Ridgeline pickup? But with an all-new 2009 Fit sub-compact hitting showrooms in a few weeks, it looks like the smartest kid on the block.

I had a quick look at the new BlackBerry Pearl Flip 8220, announced Sept. 9 and available later in the fall from T-Mobile in the U.S. Think of it as a BlackBerry Pearl recrafted into a flip phone industrial design.
       Pricing was not announced, but since the Flip is intended to appear to the same demographic as the original candybar Pearl, I expect it to come in close to the Pearl’s price of $100 with a two-year contract. The Flip should help Research In Motion extend BlackBerry’s reach into consumer markets, especially among younger customers. While BlackBerry’s traditional market is mobile executives who prize the devices  primarily for their e-mail features, T-Mobile confirmed that a substantial number of Pearls are being sold without data plans, mostly to young buyers who value them as texting tools.

UPDATE 9/16: SpinSpotter founder Todd Herman weighs in on all this in the comments section. Few things ring the bells louder, at least on this blog, than  anything related to media bias, and so I figured that the SpinSpotter news that several journalists, myself included, wrote about earlier this week might make good fodder for, well, lots of people. Evidently it has! (And thanks, by the way, to the emailers who called these discussions to my attention while I had my head down on deadline.)

We just published our annual list of America’s Best Young Entrepreneurs. One nominee that didn’t qualify, because the company is a non-profit, has a story that we want to highlight anyway. You can buy Big Picture Soda at Whole Foods in Rhode Island and dozens of other retail stores. The all-natural soda, made with spring water and pure cane sugar, can also be found in Rhode Island restaurants, corporate caterers and university dining halls.

The Wall Street Journal runs a story today on how retailers (behind firewall, I fear) are running the data on sales staffs and optimizing them. They use “human capital management systems” sold by companies like Oracle and SAP. And like the scientific management that made its way into factories a century ago, they break down work into small measurable pieces—and then try to fit them together more efficiently. Ann Taylor calculated, for example, that it should take a sales rep 32 seconds to fold a sweater and five minutes to close a sale. At first I read the story and compared it to the IBM excerpt from The Numerati that we ran two weeks ago. But now that I think about it, the program at IBM Research takes a much more sophisticated approach. It’s not looking at its test group of consultants as interchangeable cogs, but as individuals, each with a different set of skills, habits and network connections. One challenge facing researchers is to figure out what makes workers satisfied, and to fit those details into their models. Job satisfaction, in their lingo, should be a “constraint.” After all, a satisfied worker is likely to be more productive, and to stick around.

Bloomberg: Volkswagen AG said demand for the diesel-powered Jetta may be stronger than forecast since the car’s Aug. 18 U.S. debut, a step toward bucking this year’s industrywide sales slump. “It certainly met and probably exceeded our expectations,” Mark Barnes, chief operating officer of Volkswagen of America Inc., said today in an interview. He didn’t say what the Herndon, Virginia-based unit projected.

It used to be way back in the day, that consumers shopped for their produce, meat and fish at a variety of individual purveyors. Then came the small grocer and finally the arrival of the giant grocery chains and their mammoth food arenas. The big box shopping centers  now offered convenience (open seven days a week and in a number of cases 24 hours) and unfettered choice all under one roof. In one stop you could buy eggs and school supplies and even get your film developed. But the advent of the grocery store appeared to signal the sunset years of the specialty retailers and the mom and pop shop. Except for a few notable exceptions, the neighborhood grocer seemed destined  to fade into oblivion. Now there appears to be a reversal of sorts. According to the NYT, a group of large grocery stores such as SWY in California and Giant Eagle in Pittsburgh are testing out a new kind of smaller format market focusing on fresh produce and prepared meals.

When Paulson was appointed Treasury Secretary in 2006, I wrote a cover story entitled “Mr. Risk Goes To Washington”. The inside language said: “Hank Paulson’s profound understanding of risk and reward makes him the perfect pick for the Treasury.”

Airports, of course, are increasingly canvases for all kinds of ads. People are captive, so it’s hard to click away. I confess that I probably noticed more of Toyota’s “Moving Forward” campaign in airports than in any other media venue. Not long ago, I saw ads placed in the bottoms of the trays where I put my laptop, shoes, etc. Okay…I can see that.

Our ongoing series Fresh profiles standout startups before they 
      become household names. Now we’re adding videos of some of the 
      featured entrepreneurs to the mix. Catch the latest in the posts in this new section of our blog. And if you know of a great example in your area, use this form to make a suggestion. We’ll follow up on the best. Video edited by Damian Joseph

Few companies think they get a bad rap like General Motors. It’s easy to see why. Its role as SUV king has made it a pariah among environmentalists. Heavy media coverage of GM’s poor sales and financial results would give anyone a persecution complex. So GM is trying to take its case straight to the public with a new website called GM Facts and Fiction, at www.gmfactsandfiction.com. On the site, the company tries to dispel what its public relations apparatchiks think are false notions about the company. Not a bad idea. 
       
        But the site itself is mostly unconvincing. Under myths, for example, GM offers the same prosaic retorts to common criticism. In one entry, GM scoffs at the notion that the company “still doesn’t make cars that people want to buy.” As proof, GM cites that sales for cars like the Chevy Cobalt are up 10% this year. Malibu sales are up 32%. Yawn. Most of the company’s new vehicles have won praise from the motoring press. Why not refer to a good review in, say, Car and Driver?

Starpharma Holdings Ltd. rose the most in more than five years in Australian trading after the company said its VivaGel germ-killing condom will be sold by Durex, the world's biggest condom maker. Starpharma climbed 8 Australian cents, or 33 percent, to 32 cents at the close in Sydney, the sharpest gain since March 19,

O.K., we've finally wrapped our minds around the impossible: On Sunday, Sept. 7, in the name of preventing a financial meltdown, the conservative Bush Administration announced that it was seizing control of two of the nation's biggest and highest-rated (until recently) financial institutions, the mortgage giants Fannie Mae (FNM) and Freddie Mac (FRE). In short, pigs can fly, and hell really can freeze over. So maybe it's time to expand our sense of the possible and ask what other shockers are in store. Will the 13-month-old credit crunch get even worse and drag down the entire global economy? Or are punch-drunk Americans due for an even bigger shock, namely some good news for a change? The financial markets are grappling with just those issues—and gyrating between euphoria and panic. Stocks climbed on Sept. 8, the first trading day after Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. announced that he was placing Fannie and Freddie under federal conservatorship. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2%. But the next day, fears that venerable investment bank Lehman Brothers (LEH) might go under dragged the S&P 500 down 3.4%. In highly uncertain times like these, scenario-spinning can be an excellent tool for making sense of conflicting data. It won't guide you straight to the right answer, but it will get you thinking about the right questions to ask. For a best case, imagine a virtuous circle of events that starts with a favorable market reaction to Paulson's putsch. Paulson promised to replenish the companies' capital by purchasing up to $100 billion in senior preferred shares in each, as needed, to make sure they retain a positive net worth. He also set up a secured lending facility that they can draw on if their private funding sources get too costly. And he said Treasury itself will try to make mortgage loans more available and affordable by buying Fannie and Freddie mortgage-backed securities, starting with a token $5 billion but possibly going far higher. Paulson's move made a big impression in foreign markets, which have been nervously eyeing the condition of American banks. On Sept. 10, at a conference in Germany titled "Banks in Upheaval," Deutsche Bank (DB) CEO Josef Ackermann argued that "we are in a period of stabilization in credit markets and in stock markets, although they still remain nervous." Ackermann added: "We believe that what we see is the beginning of the end of the crisis." At the very least, Paulson's unprecedented move defuses one ticking time bomb. It decreases the chance that either Fannie or Freddie will default on its debts or credit guarantees, which was the doomsday scenario for global financial markets. Together, the two companies have about $1.7 trillion in outstanding corporate debt. In addition, they have guaranteed repayment on $3.7 trillion worth of mortgage-backed securities they've issued. Those securities are held by risk-averse investors such as banks, pension funds, and central banks around the world. Asian central bankers, in particular, had pressed the Treasury Dept. for action in the weeks before the takeover. Technically, Treasury is not guaranteeing the twins' obligations, but the chance that it would tolerate a default has dropped from small to near zero. As investors get comfortable with Treasury's terms, the hope is they will settle for lower yields on the mortgage-backed securities Fannie and Freddie package and insure. Indeed, yields on the companies' mortgage-backed securities fell the day after the announcement by about 0.4 percentage points. National average rates on 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages fell by an equal amount between the Friday before the announcement and the Wednesday after, to about 5.7%, according to daily surveys by Bankrate (RATE). Unclogging Fannie and Freddie's pipeline could finally make effective the easy-money policies of the Federal Reserve, which has cut the federal funds rate by 3.25 percentage points since the start of the crisis, to a stimulative 2%. If mortgage rates keep moving lower, it should help some people refinance to avoid foreclosure while spurring sales by lowering the financial hurdle for people to buy homes. "I think this is a correct move. I think it will stabilize housing," says David Kelly, chief market strategist for JPMorgan Funds (JPM). Stabilizing the housing market would be a confidence booster for the entire economy and the financial system. John Paulson of Paulson & Co., a $35 billion hedge fund that made a killing in 2007 betting against the U.S. subprime sector, told clients in a conference call days before the Treasury announcement that he's finally ready to make some tactical investments in financial firms that have gotten especially cheap, even though he thinks prices in the overall sector still have further to fall as foreclosures mount. His toe-dipping was first reported by the Financial Times. If the housing market stopped sinking, or even rose, consumers might also spend more liberally, which would then boost employment and induce even more spending—the classic virtuous circle. One optimist, James W. Paulsen (not to be confused with Henry or John), chief investment officer of Minneapolis-based Wells Capital Management, notes that the 94% of the economy that's not housing or autos has grown over 5% over the past year, while the 6% consisting of housing and autos has shrunk 20%. The implication, says Paulsen: "A quicker-than-expected turnaround is possible, since it would not require a broad-based recovery, but rather only a cessation of the collapse in two industries." Signs of health in the U.S. economy would reduce the risk of a panicky pullout by foreign investors, ensuring that inflowing capital would help finance spending by American households and businesses. In fact, the dollar rose after the Treasury announcement, adding to a gain of 10% against six major currencies since mid-July. So we're golden, right? Well, maybe not. In the vicious-circle scenario, Treasury's intervention ends up being a replay of Japan's ill-fated effort to prop up crippled banks in the 1990s. Increasing the availability of credit delays—but does not prevent—the full price decline needed to clear out the daunting overhang of nearly 4.7 million unsold existing homes as of July. As the lender of last resort, the government throws good money after bad, first on housing and then on airlines, automakers, and other supplicants. All this against an undeniable backdrop of rising federal deficits: The Congressional Budget Office predicted this month that the federal budget deficit would remain above $400 billion annually from 2008 through 2010, up from about $160 billion in 2007. In the nightmare scenario, the descent into quasi-socialism balloons the national debt and wrecks foreign investors' faith in the economy. That's the vision sketched out by ultra-bears like Peter Schiff, president of Euro Pacific Capital, a brokerage in Darien, Conn. Schiff is passionate on the topic: "The dollar is going to go through the floor, interest rates are going to spike up, and we're going to have a complete financial meltdown. It's going to be the worst-case scenario." A different school of pessimists says the housing market actually does need a big adrenaline shot from the government. But they say it's unlikely to get one from either a McCain or an Obama Administration because the risk to taxpayers from a much bigger commitment to housing would be deemed too great. The only real beneficiaries of the takeover are the holders of Fannie and Freddie securities, who are bailed out of their bad investment choices, says Robert I. Kessler, CEO of Kessler Cos., a Denver investment firm. Says Kessler: "It's a great thing for the big banks. I don't see any benefit whatsoever to consumers." Specifically, the Fan-Fred takeover does nothing to help homeowners who can't refinance a home loan because their property is assessed for less than they owe. It also may not be enough to draw in buyers, who are focused more on the risk of declining home values than on the upside of a slightly lower mortgage rate. "I've sat in open houses, and you just can't get people to make an offer," says Edward Cudahy Spalding, a real estate broker in Fort Lauderdale. "You've got to reinflate values in the housing market. I don't know how you do that." Without more relief for homeowners and consumers, the housing-led recession is likely to deepen. In this vicious-circle scenario, the housing slump depresses consumer spending, leading to job cuts and thus forcing even more foreclosures and bigger spending reductions—in other words, the mirror image of the virtuous circle. Vulnerable sectors include finance; nonresidential construction, which tends to follow homebuilding downward with a lag; and retail, which has so far lost only a modest number of jobs nationally relative to the size of the sector. Away from Wall Street, the mood is glum. Douglas S. Bartlett, owner of Bartlett Manufacturing, a maker of printed-circuit boards in Cary, Ill., says competition from China has forced him to cut employment nearly two-thirds since 2000, to 87. He hasn't felt any reprieve from the dollar's recent depreciation against China's currency. Says Bartlett: "Fortunately for us, there's been enough of our competitors going out of business that we're able to pick up their work." In Sacramento, restaurateur Ali Mackani was forced to shut down his fashionable Restaurant 55 Degrees shortly after Labor Day because of slower-than-expected commercial and residential development in the area, which he had been counting on to produce customers. Today's business failures ripple across the economy, triggering more failures. And when the financial system is crippled by losses, the hoped-for V-shaped recovery can flatten out into a wide-bottomed U, says Dan North, chief economist of Euler Hermes ACI, a North American unit of Germany's Allianz Group (AZ) that insures accounts receivable. North says that because of business failures, the number of insurance claims processed by his company was up 80% in the first six months of 2008 compared with a year earlier. It's easy to imagine either scenario unfolding, good or bad. And really, that's the whole point. Blind conviction has not served us well. On the one hand, the credit crunch has embarrassed optimists, like Federal Housing Finance Agency Director James B. Lockhart III, who averred on Mar. 19 that Fannie and Freddie "will continue to be safe and sound" and called the idea of a bailout "nonsense." In his new book, The Subprime Solution, Yale University economist Robert J. Shiller says regulators suffered from an "inability to believe that there could ever be a housing crisis of the proportions we are seeing today." On the other hand, it would be equally wrong to assume the worst and get into a defensive crouch, as some investors have done. Prices of some derivative securities are so low that they seem to factor in a complete collapse of the U.S. economy. And yet investors who smell a profit opportunity in those assets are holding back because they worry their prices could go even lower before rebounding. Ricardo Caballero, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology economist, wrote in the Bank of France's Financial Stability Review in February that "in today's market, uncertainty has led every player to make decisions based on imagined worst-case scenarios." What to do? Whether you're inclined toward the virtuous circle or the vicious one, hedge your bets. Because as the Fan/Fred takeover shows, just about anything can happen.

Officials of Ford and General Motors confirmed a report in The Detroit News that industry lobbyists have backed off the $50 billion in loans it sought over three years to make critical investments in favor of a one year $25 billion loan package it believes will clear both parties and houses of Congress before the legislature ends its current session. The compromise that’s in the air could set off a new round of debate in Michigan between Democratic Presidential nominee Barack Obama and GOP nominee John McCain. Michigan is a critical, swing state. Obama has favored the increased $50b, while McCain has stopped short of supporting anything more than the $25 billion loan package that was part of the energy bill passed last December.

The mortgage woes of Ed McMahon may be coming to a head. His six bedroom, 7,000 square foot Beverly Hills home is scheduled to go up for auction on Oct. 2. The former Tonight Show announcer ran into financial difficulties earlier this year and his main lender Countrywide Financial, now a part of Bank of America, started the foreclosure process. McMahon said at the time that his troubles illustrated the dilemma many Americans find themselves in as they took on more debt than they could afford. His story also shows the difficulty inherent in executing a so-called short sale, where a lender agrees to sell a home for less than what’s owed.

McDonald's Corp., the world's largest restaurant company, reported August sales that rose more than some analysts estimated as consumers battered by higher gasoline and grocery bills bought $1 sodas in the U.S. and snack-sized chicken wraps in France. Global sales at restaurants open at least 13 months climbed

Thomson SA's new chief executive officer, Frederic Rose, replaced the head of the unprofitable company's Systems unit and hired a technology adviser. Rose, who took over Sept. 1, appointed Chief Operating Officer Didier Trutt to replace Systems head Jacques Dunogue, according to a statement on the company's Web site. Vince Pizzica, an executive at Telstra Corp., will become special adviser for strategy, technology and marketing. He previously worked at Alcatel-Lucent SA, as did Rose.

Vietnam will tighten rules on the pricing and timing of initial share sales to revive interest in a market that's slumped 43 percent this year, the regulator said. ``We will more strictly control the process of price valuation,'' Vu Bang, chairman of the State Securities Commission, which regulates Vietnam's $14.7 billion market, said in an interview yesterday. The commission will force companies ``to make a commitment on the time of listing,'' he said.

GFI Group Inc. and Tullett Prebon Plc ended merger discussions after failing to reach an agreement on terms, the companies said in separate statements. Tullett, the second-biggest broker of transactions between banks, and GFI, the largest interdealer broker of credit derivatives trades, were weighing a deal to compete better with larger competitor ICAP Plc in an industry that generated more than $8.5 billion in fees last year. Shares of GFI plunged 17 percent in after-hours trading in New York.

Here’s a thought: At its current price, should Lehman Bros. go private? As Lehman Brothers’ stock sunk 7% on Sept. 10, investors in some corners of Wall Street began to wonder aloud about the idea. Instead of spinning off deadbeat assets and hiving off a prized investment management business, some hedge fund managers discussed whether CEO Richard Fuld would be wiser just to give up on the public markets altogether.

Fannie Mae Chairman Stephen Ashley, ex-Chief Executive Officer Daniel Mudd and two other former executives were accused in a shareholder lawsuit of misleading investors about the mortgage company's finances. The suit, which was filed yesterday in Manhattan federal court by investor John Genovese, seeks class-action, or group, status and unspecified damages. It alleges securities fraud violations.

As Election Day nears,a few days can be an eternity in an election campaign. Some issues rise and then vanish completely in less time. But there are signs that, 48 hours after the government’s takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, this issue is likely to linger at least a little longer as a campaign theme. For one thing, both candidates have ties to the mortgage giants, the New York Times reports. Not that that’s stopping them from lobbing barbs at the companies.

Bulgari SpA, the world's third-largest jeweler, was cut to ``sell'' from ``hold'' at Citigroup Inc., which cited ``muted growth prospects.'' ``One-third of Bulgari's revenues are generated in Italy and Japan versus about 15-18 percent for the broader luxury sector,'' analyst Thomas Chauvet wrote in a research dated today. ``These markets have limited growth prospects in 2008/09 and significant downside risks to GDP and private consumption.''

Imagine my surprise when I began reading The New York Times article about sexual stereotyping in ads that women want us to think that they are just as able to tackle a dirty floor as a man. Huh?





































































































One of the biggest economic issues that will face the next president — whoever it turns out to be — is the Fannie and Freddie show: What to do with the mortgage giants that the government suddenly finds itself running. It’s more than an abstract policy question: What happens next has broad ramifications for the economy and countless businesses and people both here and abroad. BusinessWeek helps map out the landscape, for the candidates and for you.

I just did a cover story on innovation economics which appears here. More later..I’ve got to recover.

The Lehman Brothers bloodbath continues, as shares of the beleaguered investment bank tumbled again today—just one day after the firm announced a still evolving plan to put its financial affairs in order.  In late morning trading, shares of Lehman were off 40% to about $4.40. The stock has plummeted more than 70% this week.  The vicious sell-off is Wall Street’s way of saying it doubts Lehman CEO Dick Fuld can get the job done. Traders worry Fuld won’t be able to raise the necessary capital from the sale of a majority stake in its Neuberger Berman asset management business, to fund a new Lehman spin-off that will house some $30 billion in ailing commercial real estate assets. It’s increasingly looking like the firm’s days as an independent firm are numbered, as one analyst after another begins saying Lehman needs to find another bank to rescue it from oblivion.

As part of a three-hour media day today, a Yahoo executive offered an interesting defense of the company’s pending search deal with Google. That deal, which was supposed to start in a few weeks, has come under increasing fire by people concerned that it will cement Google’s already huge lead in search advertising. Now, Justice is apparently looking whether there’s a case to quash the deal. Hilary Schneider, executive vice president of Yahoo U.S., positioned the deal with Google as an extension of Yahoo’s partnerships by which other publishers such as hundreds of U.S. newspapers can sell ads on Yahoo properties. Her example: Search for “red roses in Birmingham Alabama” and you get no ads on Yahoo search results page. Google’s search results page has 11 advertisers. So by hooking up with Google, Yahoo is giving those advertisers a chance to reach Yahoo users as well as Google users and potentially get more customers. In Yahoo’s view, says Schneider, “We are able to essentially create more access and better ROI for the advertisers.”

When Hurricane Ike took a left on Sept. 8, heading away from Florida, locals breathed a sigh of relief. Not only are their homes on the line with each burst of violent weather but their pocketbooks are increasingly at risk, too. Over the past four years, Florida taxpayers' vulnerability to a major weather catastrophe has grown. The quasi-governmental company that was conceived as an insurer of last resort, Citizens Property Insurance, has become Florida's top underwriter of homeowners' insurance. Citizens now has more than $433 billion of property exposure on its books, and Florida has exacerbated that risk by getting into the reinsurance business as well. "It's a disaster," says Brian P. Sullivan, editor of Property Insurance Report. "This is not something the public should be dabbling with." Florida's concentration of risk in the hands of taxpayers is an example of the potential risks of having states supplement private-sector insurance. While Florida is particularly exposed to hurricanes, states including Texas and Louisiana also have increasingly popular state-sponsored insurance funds. And there's talk in Washington of adding wind coverage to the federal flood insurance program. The appeal for homeowners: reasonably priced policies that offer relief from rising rates. But critics say that, in Florida at least, the state-sponsored player has inadequate reserves to cover future losses if a big storm hits, and that private companies find it tough to compete. "If the market behaved more rationally, prices would likely go up," says Ross Buchmueller, chief executive of PURE Risk Management, which writes only high-end homeowners' insurance in Florida. On the surface, Citizens looks like an attractive option. The insurer is projecting a $4 billion surplus at the end of this year, says spokesman John Kuczwanski. But risk modelers project a rise in hurricanes, which could lead to heavy losses. According to the pro-industry Florida Insurance Council, if a category 4 or 5 storm hit Miami, it could cost $50 billion in repairs. Hurricane Katrina cost insurers $44.9 billion nationwide, according to insurance credit-rating agency A.M. Best. Insurers typically try to spread the risk of such major calamities by buying reinsurance. Florida has instead taken on $28 billion worth of reinsurance risk itself, and its reinsurance pool would have to issue bonds for anything over $7.8 billion in losses. (The state's entire 2007-08 budget is $70 billion.) Given the credit market's volatility, taxpayers could face a huge bill. In July the state agreed to pay $224 million to Berkshire Hathaway (BRK) just for the right to borrow $4 billion if insurance fund losses exceed $16 billion before May 15, 2009. Citizens was never meant to grow to this size. It now has 1 million policies in force and accounts for 28% of all written premiums for homeowners' insurance—more than double its nearest rival, State Farm Insurance. Formed as a backstop in 2002, the company took off after three major hurricanes in 2004 and 2005. Faced with state-imposed limits on raising rates to cover their risks, insurers began to pull out of Florida. Allstate Insurance (ALL) has reduced its presence by two-thirds since 2004, writing 500,000 fewer homeowners' policies. State Farm, meanwhile, is appealing for a 47% rate increase and stopped writing new policies in Florida in February. Earlier this year it also canceled coverage on all homes within a mile of the coastline. "We are very concerned about the financial condition of State Farm Florida," says spokesman Chris Neal. "Even in nonhurricane years, we have continued to lose money." As Citizens grows, how much liability could taxpayers face? With foreclosures rising and reconstruction costs high, it seems that Florida's next big hurricane could leave a wake of financial destruction.

For decades, Nirmala Shivdas Kshirsagar prepared family meals on a chula, a wood-burning oven made from mud. The stove cost little to operate, but the 45-year-old village schoolteacher paid a price: Unruly flames frequently burned Kshirsagar's hands and feet, and smoke filled her three-room home, making breathing difficult and leaving a sooty mess on the kitchen's mud-plastered walls. It's a common problem: The U.N. estimates that smoke inhalation from indoor wood stoves kills 1.6 million people worldwide each year. So when an Indian development organization last year asked if Kshirsagar wanted to try an improved chula developed in conjunction with the Amsterdam-based electronics giant, Royal Philips Electronics (PHG), she agreed. One year later, Kshirsagar says she loves the stove. She's breathing more easily, and her spartan home is cleaner. "The chula is so much safer and I don't burn my feet," says Kshirsagar, who lives 130 miles south of Mumbai in the village of Sewree. Conventional chulas use a single length of pipe as a chimney and can only be cleaned by climbing up on the roof. The model designed by Philips has a three-part chimney that can be dismantled and cleaned, making it easier to keep it clear. And cooking pots fit snugly into a hole above the fire, which helps direct the smoke up the chimney and keeps it from seeping into the room. Fuel—wood or manure—is relatively inexpensive, about $5 a month. That's key for Kshirsagar: With her husband out of work, she supports her family of five on the $90 a month she earns from teaching. Sewree and places like it don't typically hit the radar of multinationals. And low-tech products such as the chula are far removed from the sophisticated medical gear, high-end home entertainment systems, and nifty gadgets that Philips is known for. But the chula and a handful of similar projects are a key part of Philips' effort to help its designers gain insights into the growth regions of the future. That they boost the company's reputation for social responsibility and give it a foothold in new markets doesn't hurt, either. "We must create a design strategy that will improve the quality of life in both the developed and developing world," says Stefano Marzano, chief executive of Philips Design. The chula and projects like it are still relatively small-scale. But they are emblematic of Philips' effort to transform itself from a high-volume electronics maker into a design-led health, lifestyle, and technology company. With innovations easily copied and competition from low-cost Asian producers fierce, Philips understands it is no longer enough to crank out great products. What it's aiming for is social innovation, or engaging with nontraditional partners to develop culturally relevant solutions. And it is here that design is helping bridge the gap between technology and people. "There is no single player that can address the major global challenges society faces today," says Josephine Green, senior director for trends and strategy at Philips. "Instead, you need to bring together numerous partners, including the users themselves, to co-create social innovation." For Philips, the success of projects like the chula isn't measured in profits. Indeed, Marzano refers to such initiatives as "philanthropy by design." But by developing sustainable solutions, the company can deepen its knowledge of robust emerging markets and experiment with new business models. "Emerging-market economies are collectively rich but individually poor," says Rama Bijapurkar, a market strategy consultant based in Mumbai. In India, she says, the estimated 600 million people who earn less than $2 per day account for one-third of India's economy. "If companies do not address them, they cannot take full advantage of these markets." Philips designers regularly get feedback from Kshirsagar and the 450 or so other families using the chula. "You can't just use the traditional transactional model of, 'You sell and they pay,' " says Bob Hoekstra, former head of Philips' innovation campus in Bangalore whose firm, Opportunity India, advises companies looking to do business in the country. "You have to provide people the means of generating the income  necessary to pay for your products." On the chula project, Philips teamed up with nontraditional partners that aim to do just that. Local development agencies will set up small roadside factories for creating the components for the stoves, which are made from mud, sand, and cement and require no costly manufacturing equipment. Once the stoves are built, self-help groups of women sell them for a small commission. Villagers, with the help of microfinance institutions and possibly income from jobs at the manufacturing sites, can earn the money to pay for the chula in installments. (Philips' research found users will pay up to $20 for a stove; prices will be determined locally.) The alliances boost Philips' credibility locally—and give it a better understanding of these new consumers. Of course, such initiatives are fraught with difficulties. It can be tough to find the right partners, gain the trust—and input—of locals to develop new methods of distribution, and then convince them that the product is worth the price. In the past, many grassroots outfits would have considered an alliance with a global brand to be a sellout. Increasingly, though, these groups realize that finding affordable solutions to major challenges such as reliable energy, accessible health care, or clean water requires cooperation with corporations. And that's why says President Sai Prakash of the Erin Foundation, a Bangalore-based development group, has signed on to the Dutch giant's chula initiative. Because the company isn't charging for its designers' time, "we are convinced Philips has no hidden agenda," says Prakash. For Philips' designers, finding the appropriate solutions requires an entirely different approach. When designing lights for the U.S. and Europe, for instance, Philips focuses largely on mood and ambience. In emerging markets, though, electricity is often unreliable or even nonexistent, so consumers want durable, affordable lights that aren't dependent on a continuous supply of electricity. Those issues became clear four years ago, when Philips began looking for an alternative to the kerosene lanterns that are ubiquitous in developing countries. These lamps aren't very bright, their fumes are unhealthy, and they can cause fires if knocked over. And the fuel they need can eat up as much as a third of a poor family's income. Enter SMILE, or Sustainable Model In Lighting Everywhere. That's the name Philips gave to two ideas it came up with after working with NGOs to better understand consumers' needs. Kiran, a hand-cranked flashlight, uses long-lasting light emitting diodes (LEDs) and is aimed at users with no access to electricity. Uday, a rechargeable portable lantern, is aimed at middle-class users with erratic power supplies. SMILE rolled out last year in eight Indian states. Since then, it has been extended to Africa. Not only does SMILE bring lighting to people who desperately need it but it also offers a clean technology that costs less to use than kerosene lanterns. "It's not about taking older, cheaper products and technology to emerging markets," says Simona Rocchi, director of sustainable design at Philips Design in The Netherlands. In the case of SMILE, "it's about taking a new technology and adapting it in smart ways to allow people . . . to leapfrog into the latest in lighting—LED." One of the biggest issues for Philips and others developing products for emerging markets is how to turn such social innovations into self-sustaining businesses. That was the main problem with a telemedicine project called  Distance Healthcare Advancement, which concluded in 2005. Philips and several local partners wanted to create affordable access to high-tech medical services for people in India living on $2,000 or less a year. While the group overcame numerous cultural, technical, and operational problems, usage didn't meet expectations, and the parties couldn't agree on what fees, if any, to charge. Ultimately they failed to find a way to lower costs and make the project a viable business. "We've managed to deliver the solution and crack the concept," says Murali Sivaraman, CEO of Philips India. Now the company is trying to figure out how best to tackle the problem of cost. For Philips and other multinationals looking to reach out to consumers across the income spectrum in emerging markets, this remains the biggest obstacle. Says Unmesh Kulkarni, senior design manager for Philips in Pune: "Designing for simple solutions at the lowest possible cost is in many ways more challenging than designing a very advanced, high-tech solution." 
Return to Business & America's Idea Economy

updated at 4:20 p.m. ET Lehman Brothers appears to be coming around to the conclusion that it can’t make it alone.

As chief investment officer for money management firm TCW, Jeffrey Gundlach presides over some $127 billion in assets. But it is the mortgage market where Gundlach spends most of his time, and where he has been reaping big profits lately. His $1.8 billion TCW Strategic Mortgage-Backed Securities portfolio, which he manages on behalf of institutional investors, returned 23% for the year ending in June. It was a great performance for any manager, but a particularly strong showing for someone investing in one of the most turbulent sectors of the markets. A main source of that gain: a smart play in securities backed by Fannie Mae (FNM) and Freddie Mac (FRE). Last year, Gundlach stocked up on longer-term bonds issued by the government-sponsored enterprises. "We bought securities positioned for the Federal Reserve to cut rates, that had no credit risk," he says. In June 2007, Gundlach publicly aired his concerns about the mortgage market. At a Morningstar (MORN) investment conference, he stood up to call the subprime mortgage market "a total unmitigated disaster." Gundlach still sees rough times ahead. While the mortgage market rose on the news that the government was taking over Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, he thinks the bigger issue is that "there are many troubled institutions that probably won't get a bailout. There are many that, if they had to mark investments to market, would likely be insolvent." Nevertheless, the money manager sees value among the carnage. He's buying mortgage securities concentrated in some of the most troubled housing markets. "We're buying things like Wells Fargo (WFC) or Countrywide (BAC) mortgage-backed pass-throughs [securities that pay investors a piece of homeowners' mortgage payments every month] and getting 6% coupons at prices in the $60s," he says. "They don't have the government guarantee, but they have a lot of cushion. If I buy a security at 67 cents on the dollar—even if a third of the loans defaulted and we lost everything on those loans—we'd still get our 67 cents back." Individuals can buy Gundlach's TCW Total Return Bond Fund (TGLMX), which takes a less risky approach and was up 7.8% for the year ending June 30, placing it in the top 3% of U.S. mortgage funds, according to Lipper. The strategy sounds chancy. But to the 48-year-old money manager, it's "a once-in-a-generation buying opportunity." Gundlach has proven prescient in his calls, particularly on the housing market. "I said in 2006 that housing prices wouldn't start to appreciate again until 2010," he says. "I was on the lunatic fringe." He's sticking with his forecast, and figures that areas most driven by loose lending conditions and extreme speculation—Phoenix, Las Vegas, Miami, and Southern California—will see a 50% decline. (Many of those areas are already down 35%.) Nationwide, he expects prices, already down 15%, to fall by a total of 30%. Gundlach's opportunistic streak was apparent early on. He moved to Los Angeles 25 years ago to make it as a rock 'n' roll drummer but chose the investment business after seeing it highlighted as a top-earning career on Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous. He doesn't get to pound the skins much since his daughter took over his home studio for her art projects. What song would he choose to score the markets today? The Guns N' Roses anthem, Welcome to the Jungle.

In your opinion, what big business imperative doesn't get enough attention? — Pedro Cézar Dantas Neto, São Paulo
 Not innovation, that's for sure. It's on everyone's mind these days, appropriately so. Same for technology, globalization, and employee engagement—all burning bushes, as they should be. Quality doesn't get talked about as much as it used to, but that's because it's a given. Ditto for teamwork. And strategy, well, in today's lightning-paced world, people seem to be giving it as much attention as it deserves. Which is something you can't say about stickiness. Of all the business ideas in the "debate-o-sphere"—and stickiness has been out there for years now by many names, "customer retention" and "loyalty" among them—it still doesn't obsess managers nearly enough. Because stickiness can change the game. It transforms business from a transaction-based model to a more lasting, mutually beneficial one in which companies improve their own revenues and margins by improving their customers' competitiveness. Indeed, the only trouble with stickiness, in our view, is that it can be hard to create. But still, let us suggest a few proven ways to go at it. The first, perhaps not surprisingly, is good old-fashioned service. What is surprising, however, is how exceptional and inventive customer service needs to be to stand out these days. Take Mitchells, the Connecticut-based clothing chain. It has managed to outperform the competition in the tough suburban New York market not only by treating customers like royalty but as individuals, offering personal "enhancements" such as same-day tailoring and home delivery. Similarly, Four Seasons wins hearts and wallets in the crowded luxury hotel market by invariably delivering high-quality, seamless experiences. For manufacturers, customer service is critical, but another approach to stickiness can pack an even bigger wallop. It requires moving from a product-focused business to a product-and-long-term-service business by guaranteeing productivity gains to customers. Now, most engineers want to build new machines, the faster and more powerful, the better. With this model, you're asking your engineers to focus on continuous technology upgrades to meet the terms that got you the sale. You're also betting they can deliver those upgrades in a way that provides productivity increases over many years. That's a big wager, but if you're right, it's a huge win for everyone. Another tack, open particularly to commodity businesses, is to use your strong balance sheet to take a major outlay of capital off of a customer's hands. Industrial gas companies win long-term contracts, for instance, by building their plants next to customers' factories, providing over-the-fence, competitively priced raw materials. Some plastic manufacturers build on-site silos for customers, essentially guaranteeing a cost-competitive supply. Again, their customers return the favor by, well, sticking around. Almost all companies can create stickiness by sharing knowhow. Welcome customers into your R&D facilities with a "my lab is your lab" mind set, share new designs for packaging, or show off next-gen products. If your expertise is in human resources, train your customers' managers in hiring, coaching, and evaluation. Many companies that are strong on Six Sigma, for instance, send their "Black Belts" into customer organizations to launch training programs. Such unbridled sharing of expertise creates a real affinity, not to mention a mutual obligation that can yield dividends for years. Finally, many businesses can create stickiness by building user communities. Every year, for instance, software company SAP (SAP) hosts conferences where customers can meet with IT experts, software developers, and, most important, each other. These aren't sales events per se, but you can be sure that attendees leave with a feeling of partnership with SAP that contributes to the company's steady share gains. Look, we're not inventing gravity here. We know that most companies have at least paid lip service to some of these ideas. But that's often the extent of it. The truth is, any one of these approaches involves a cultural shift, with a time-and-money commitment from management and the acceptance of some level of risk. Organizations must come to see the world through customers' eyes. Otherwise, unlike gravity, stickiness just won't happen.

Like most U.S. retailers, Macy's (M) is battling recessionary forces. And with sales tepid and the stock price weak, the department store is embarking on a store-by-store strategy to cater to customers' local tastes. To help it get there, Macy's recently became the latest sales-challenged U.S. retailer to hire a British research shop called dunnhumby. Co-founded in 1989 by marketing geeks Edwina Dunn and Clive Humby, dunnhumby doesn't help retailers find new shoppers. Rather, by crunching data from credit-card transactions and customer loyalty programs, the outfit reveals hidden and lucrative facts about clients' current customers. It can identify who might jump at a particular sale, or who will ditch the store if a certain product goes away. "I really think it's some of the best intelligence available," says Deborah Weinswig, who follows the retail industry for Citigroup (C). Dunnhumby started out researching consumers for direct-mailers. Then in 1995 it got a call from Tesco. The British supermarket behemoth wanted dunnhumby to help it learn about holders of its new loyalty cards, which offer customers special discounts. Impressed by how dunnhumby helped it tailor coupons to shoppers, Tesco in 2001 bought control of the firm. Since then, dunnhumby has helped Tesco divine shoppers' behavior in other ways. For instance, the grocer planned to ditch a poor-selling type of bread. But dunnhumby found that the so-called milk loaf was a "destination product" for a loyal cohort who would shop elsewhere if it disappeared. Tesco kept the bread. In 2003, supermarket chain Kroger (KR) brought dunnhumby to the U.S. to do similar research. Through a joint venture in which Kroger and dunnhumby each have a 50% stake, the firm ran the grocer's loyalty card program and advised it on how to improve in-store promotions. Dunnhumby can't take all the credit, but Kroger has done well ever since, with sales in existing stores up more than 5% on average for the past 12 quarters, vs. the industry average of 2.7%. "They have been key to helping us create a successful loyalty program," says Meghan Glynn, a Kroger spokeswoman. Now other major U.S. retailers are calling on dunnhumby. Home Depot (HD) is using the firm to help it learn more about the "portfolio of professionals"—carpenters, roofers, janitors—who spend far more than the average weekend warrior. Simon Hay, CEO of dunnhumbyUSA, says the firm is bringing in representatives of each job—identified by their shopping behavior—to hear about what products they like and what they want to see. Home Depot may implement those suggestions at stores where large numbers of pros shop. Dunnhumby's relationship with Macy's is nascent, but the research firm has uncovered insights elsewhere that could prove useful. While working with a major European catalogue company, dunnhumby discovered that shoppers of different body types don't simply prefer different clothing styles, they actually shop at different times of the year. Slimmer consumers buy early in a new season. Larger folks take fewer risks, waiting until later in the season to see what will be popular. Dunnhumby could help Macy's uncover regional quirks. Macy's won't discuss its relationship with dunnhumby. But because the British firm has agreed not to work with rivals, the chain may be privy to consumer insights that the likes of J.C. Penney (JCP), Nordstrom (JWN), and Saks Fifth Avenue (SKS) are not. There is no telling whether Macy's will enjoy Kroger-style results, but in this economic climate, knowing thy customer—even a little better—can't hurt.

GAHEMBE, Rwanda—After the sun sets, the 96 families in this village light their homes with the flickering orange halo of kerosene lanterns. Those who can't afford lanterns pour the fuel into tin cans with wicks. Outside, they light bonfires. But on a recent evening, a white-blue glow peeked out beneath doors and through windows. In one family room, a teenager bent over a geography notebook illuminated by two light-emitting diodes (LEDs) on a device the size and shape of a hockey puck. He wore it on a strap around his neck, next to a rosary. Another villager, a one-legged man named Jean Damiscene Twagirayezo, said he used one of the lights during his nightly security check instead of carrying a kerosene lantern. The new light doesn't "give out bad air," he says. And at a nearby shop, two hung from the ceiling casting a bright cone at the floor. A woman dressed in a wrap and headscarf asked Sameer Hajee, a Canadian engineer with a shaved head, why he hadn't given her one. Hajee, who previously worked as a chip designer for two now-defunct Silicon Valley outfits, heads Lights for Life (LFL), a small nonprofit with offices in Toronto and Detroit. LFL developed the "Portable On Demand" (POD) light and a charging device that can be powered by pedal, solar panels, or normal electricity. In Gahembe, Hajee was conducting the PODs' first field trial, lending 20 fully charged POD prototypes to villagers. "It's easy for us to design in a vacuum," Hajee said later of the process that had kept five engineers and designers busy for several months creating the product. He wanted to test the products outside the workshop. The Millennium Villages project, a high-profile development effort under the auspices of Columbia University's Earth Institute, had previously worked in Gahembe and connected Hajee with the town, he says. At first Hajee expected to see villagers strap the POD lights to their foreheads, spelunker style. Instead they were more likely to wear the straps like necklaces, the headlamp being an unfamiliar concept in central Africa. And Hajee saw that the lights were best for individual tasks like cooking or reading but couldn't light a room. Some people didn't understand how they worked at all. They "were placing the POD in front of their book with the light facing them," he wrote in an e-mail. "As a result, they were forced to look into the light and some complained of eye strain." As such, later tests will include a "cheat sheet" illustrating how the lights work best. That's not ideal (the page of instructions could get separated from the light, after all) but Hajee expects people will figure it out. Since the tests, Hajee says they're changing the strap fastener to Velcro, as well as modifying the lights' shape slightly to make them more comfortable as headlamps. Outside a few major cities, sub-Saharan Africa has hardly any lighting infrastructure. As in much of the developing world, light comes from sources like firewood, kerosene, or bulbs powered by car batteries. These all have severe drawbacks. Inhaling kerosene fumes daily can cause lung disease. Knocked over lanterns ignite. Harvesting firewood is tedious and environmentally destructive. For people living on $1 or $2 per day, fuel and flashlight batteries are expensive. In Rwanda, a 10-ounce Fanta bottle of kerosene costs about 50¢ and might produce six hours of unsteady light. The government's target is for 35% to 40% of the population to have electricity by 2020, probably five or six times the current figure. Achieving this goal is a development concern and, potentially, a lucrative opportunity. Back in May, the World Bank held its first Lighting Africa conference in Accra, Ghana. There it awarded prizes of up to $200,000 to 16 companies and nonprofits (including LFL) for "off the grid" lighting ideas; smart ways to brighten life for the more than 500 million Africans who don't have regular electricity. Two additional field test trials are now under way to look at ways PODs could be distributed. Some time in the late fall LFL plans to give out PODs at a few schools in rural Kenya. The hope is that students will charge them at school before bringing them home to study. In a more business-oriented trial, LFL will experiment with distributing charging docks and PODs to entrepreneurs who will sell or rent out the lights and collect charging fees. Hajee calls the idea "microfranchising." Thanks to cell phones, charging fees are familiar in many parts of Africa. Villagers in Gahembe, for example, pay about 20¢ to juice their phones at a store with electricity. Theoretically this could be quickly duplicated anywhere a market for light exists. Surveying the test subjects, Hajee surmised that the POD's clearest advantage over kerosene was not giving off fumes. The PODs didn't fill a room nearly as well as a single incandescent lightbulb. So there's still room for innovation here, by LFL—or a competitor. 
Alex Halperin, a reporter, was in Rwanda thanks to a grant from the Phillips Foundation.

This was written by Ben Levisohn, a staff editor at BusinessWeek 
 Yesterday, Lehman Brothers tried to defuse massive talk of its imminent demise as an independent firm by disclosing plans for the future.

The worst housing downturn since the Great Depression is a bonanza for Lender Processing Services Inc., the two-month-old spinoff that is the U.S.'s biggest processor of home-loan defaults and foreclosures. LPS has outperformed its former parent, Fidelity National Information Services Inc., which split off the Jacksonville, Florida-based company in July as foreclosures climbed to a record. The shares have also surpassed the Standard & Poor's 400 Midcap Index, and competitors including First American Corp. and LandAmerica Financial Group Inc., since they started trading.

The Federal Reserve has just released its annual Home Mortgage Disclosure Act report, and you won’t be shocked by its conclusion: It has become very, very hard for people with iffy credit to get mortgage loans, including many blacks and Hispanics. I just got a statement about the Fed report from the National Community Reinvestment Coalition:

Most of what you read in magazines about financial planning is wrong. Those formulas where you subtract your age from 100 to get your suggested stock allocation? The asset pie charts that will supposedly shepherd you safely through your golden years? They ignore the most important element shaping your finances—something that should be factored into every aspect of your investment strategy: your career, or what financial types loosely call human capital. After all, for most people their job is their largest financial asset, and a salary provides the bulk of their wealth. The moment human capital is included, however, complex questions arise. How, for instance, should the investment strategy of a tenured professor differ from that of an auto worker in a factory that may soon be closed? Should an executive at an oil company invest in energy stocks after they've had such a strong run? What about brokers who used to work at Bear Stearns (BSC) before its meltdown? Should they have owned financial-services stocks or even owned stocks at all when their livelihoods depended so much on the stock market's moves? The problem is how to turn your career into something quantifiable that can fit into a plan. One suggestion from financial researcher Ibbotson Associates is to think of your job as a type of financial security. "Years ago we had a meeting at Ibbotson with all these legends of finance and Nobel prize winners, such as Harry Markowitz and Daniel Kahneman, in which we debated what kind of security the average person's human capital is like," says Thomas Idzorek, Ibbotson's director of research. "We concluded it was like a junk bond. When times are good, it pays a stable income stream and trades like a bond. Then there's a hiccup, and it becomes volatile and trades like a stock." To be more precise, Ibbotson judges the average person's human capital to be 70% like a bond and 30% like a stock. "The human capital of a tenured university professor with a stable income may be more like a portfolio that is 80% bonds and 20% stocks," Idzorek says. "Someone working in financial services, whose salary and bonus depend largely on the stock market, might be 50% bonds and 50% stocks." All other things being equal, the tenured professor should be investing more aggressively than the stockbroker. Financial planners offer various solutions to the human capital conundrum. Adviser Matthew McGrath, a principal at Evensky & Katz Wealth Management in Coral Gables, Fla., factors it into the cash reserves he recommends clients keep to cover expenses should they lose their jobs. "If both spouses are at stable jobs in stable industries, maybe you need only emergency reserves to cover three months' worth of expected expenses," he says. "But if only one spouse is working you probably need six months' worth." Some of McGrath's clients are self-employed business owners in cyclical industries such as retailing and real estate. Their incomes can vary greatly every year and even month to month. "These people often have a lot of illiquid assets that can't cover all their daily expenses," he says. "We get an estimate of their expected expenses for the next two years and put that in cash, money market accounts, and ultrashort-term bonds." Generally speaking, he puts the first year's worth of expenses in cash and the second year in slightly higher-yielding bonds. McGrath says having such a cash cushion enables him to invest the rest of a client's assets more aggressively in traditional stocks and bonds. "The cash reserve separates clients psychologically from the market," he says. "They don't have to worry about what the markets are doing every day because they know their expenses are covered." Some planners tailor the remainder of a client's portfolio to the industry she's working in, reducing or cutting exposure to certain sectors. "We replicate a global index of thousands of stocks but tailor it for the individual," says Joel Hornstein, CEO of Structural Wealth Management, a San Francisco planning firm with high-net-worth clients. "You have unique economic risks depending on your industry." Hornstein's strategy flies in the face of what traditional efficient-market theorists recommend—indexing to expose one's portfolio to every economic sector. Before hiring Hornstein three months ago, venture capitalist Gina Raimondo worked with advisers at big brokerage firms, but she was frustrated with the results. "They offered me the three basic asset allocation plans—conservative, moderate, and aggressive—without even considering my venture capital exposure," she says. "It was very cookie cutter." Raimondo's VC firm, which she doesn't want named, invests heavily in telecom, technology, and biotech startups. Her livelihood, and a significant portion of her net worth, is tied up in those industries. So Hornstein reduced her exposure there and increased her weightings in sectors such as energy, basic materials, and utilities, which tend to behave differently from New Economy tech, telecom, and health-care stocks. Because Raimondo invests in small U.S. startups, Hornstein avoids small caps and invests more of her money in large foreign stocks. "I feel a lot more confident knowing that my portfolio is tailored to move one way when my venture capital investments may be moving in another," Raimondo says. To further reduce Raimondo's risk, Hornstein plans to cut her overall stock exposure in the near future. "Venture capital is highly correlated with the stock market in general," he says. "Our focus is to manage Gina's portfolio in the unlikely case that the overall stock market and the sectors she's exposed to do poorly." Although the normal stock allocation for someone of Raimondo's age and risk tolerance would be as high as 85% at Hornstein's firm, he wants hers to be less than half that. While Hornstein recommends doing everything you can to minimize exposure to the industry you work in,  some investors want to capitalize on their industry knowledge. One is Darin Gosda,  senior vice-president at Betz Cos., a commercial real estate broker in Houston. Gosda has almost 40% of his assets in Houston real estate, not including his house. "I've been investing in real estate in Houston for 16 years, and I've never lost money," he says. "During my worst year I earned a 13% return and my best over 60%. None of my financial advisers have ever done as well for me in the stock market." What planner would have the courage to tell Gosda to be more diversified? "We're uncomfortable with Darin's strategy, but he's been doing this for many years and has been very successful at it," says Marc Schindler, Gosda's adviser at Pivot Point Advisors in Bellaire, Tex. About all Schindler can do is avoid real estate stocks in Gosda's portfolio. The problem with stories like Gosda's is that few individuals are as successful as he is investing in their own industries. "Seventy-five percent of professional money managers who invest for a living can't beat the market," says Ron Papanek, a market strategist at RiskMetrics Group (RMG), a New York financial risk analysis firm. "So what are you doing trying to pick stocks in your own industry? The average person just isn't that good of an investor." Papanek's firm runs a free Web site, RiskGrades.com, that shows investors how much more volatile their portfolios become if they concentrate assets in their own industries. They can plug in the investments in their portfolios and the site will give them a grade—the higher the grade, the more volatile the portfolio. Concentrated industry-centric portfolios get the highest grades. That's before factoring in the much harder-to-quantify risk of losing one's job. The site also helps individuals who are designing their own portfolios figure out what stock sectors are least correlated with their industries. For those who can't resist investing in their own industries, Papanek stresses that they should at least recognize that if they invest like this when they're young, it's easier to recover from a major loss. But investors approaching retirement can't afford to jeopardize their nest eggs. Other advisers actually plan around their clients' "play money." When clients of Evensky & Katz's McGrath insist on placing bets on their own industries, he asks them how much they can afford to lose and then tries to persuade them not to put more than 5% or 10% of their assets in that sector. "That usually satisfies their desire without putting their financial independence in jeopardy," he says. Of course, some investors have no choice but to invest in their industries. Many executives get bonuses in the form of restricted stock or stock options they can't easily sell. So they're not only concentrated in their industries but in their employers, significantly amplifying their risk. There are potential solutions: An executive could buy a put option, a security that rises when the company stock falls. But companies may put restrictions on when an employee can do this, if they permit it at all. Buying a put option on an exchange-traded fund that tracks your industry is another idea. Of course, if your industry rises while your company's stock falls, you lose on both counts. The human capital riddle is never easy to solve.

ASTANA - On the scorching, scrub-dotted steppe along the east coast of the Caspian Sea, a Chevron (CVX)-led team is opening up the taps on 50 new wells at the supergiant Tengiz oil field. Fifteen years after snagging rights to the Kazakhstan field, the U.S. oil giant is at last doubling production to 540,000 barrels a day, its largest single source of oil in the world. Tengiz is a prize, and Chevron has spent bundles to secure it. In the nearby city of Atyrau, the headquarters and logo of Chevron's joint venture dominate the skyline, while  company townhouses in the city center include pools, a gym, and schools for the expat oilmen and their families. You would think Chevron's victory in this remote oil patch was complete. Yet getting the oil out of the landlocked country has always been a tricky affair: Russia has blocked, stalled, and restricted the flow of Tengiz oil through its territory since the first day Chevron took over the field. Teaming up with the Kazakhs, Chevron has resorted to shipping some of its oil across the Caspian Sea to Baku, the capital of Azerbaijan, and then via pipeline and railroad to Georgia's Black Sea coast in an effort to avoid Russia. These days, Chevron does ship most of its oil through Russia, but for safety's sake it hopes to build a long, new pipeline across Georgia and export more through that route. The plans for the corridor, though, were drawn before Russia's summer romp through Georgia. Suddenly, that tiny Caucasian state—embraced by Washington in a bold plan to pry it away from Moscow's grip—seems much less secure. The republics along the route and the companies working there are wearing their game faces, saying it's not clear the conflict in Georgia changed anything. Chevron regional vice-president Ian MacDonald says "it's too early to say" whether the Georgia events will cause transportation problems. But already Kazakhstan has canceled plans to build a refinery on the Georgian coast, and Big Oil is privately scrambling to assess how much of a setback its export plans have suffered. The face-off with Moscow could affect not only Georgian sovereignty but also the energy business all the way from Kazakhstan to Western Europe. For the landlocked Caspian nations, it could become difficult or even impossible to secure the financing they need to expand the oil-and-gas corridor to the Georgian Black Sea. For Europe, which receives a full third of its natural gas and oil from Russia, the danger is that Moscow becomes far more demanding on political and economic issues. "There has been a decided shift in negotiating power," says Jonathan Simpson, a legal adviser on European gas pipeline deals with Russia. "This excursion has given [the Russians] a big stick at the table . . . . I don't see pressure from the U.S. having any impact at all." Even before the Georgia mini-war, Russia was playing for keeps in the region. Starting in the 1990s, Russia often got its way by manipulating its oil and natural gas pipelines, which, despite the West's efforts, still dominate Caspian output. Russian pipelines ship more than 85% of the 6.3 million barrels of oil exported daily from the former Soviet Union. In its struggles with the republics, Russia has turned its spigots off and on repeatedly. In 1993, for instance, Moscow shut off Turkmenistan's gas exports to the West, forcing the Turkmen to sell at a lower price to Ukraine. Kazakhstan has been the biggest prize of all. It didn't look that way in the Soviet Union's last days, when the flow of money from Moscow slowed considerably, and Kazakhstan had to take out a loan to feed its cattle. It had Tengiz, with at least 9 billion barrels of reserves, plus 13 billion-barrel Kashagan, the largest oil discovery anywhere in 40 years. Yet it was still hard to picture how a territory lacking a single private office building, in which the biggest business was importing Coke and whiskey, would become a petro-state. Several deals and almost two decades later, Al-Farabi Street in the old capital of Almaty looks like a miniature version of Los Angeles' tony Wilshire Boulevard. Astana, the new capital, is a mix of Las Vegas, Disney World, and Dubai. The novi Kazakhi—the oil-rich "new Kazakhs"—hang out at Chocolate, the night club in the Radisson Hotel and the hottest spot in town. President Nursultan Nazarbayev has thrown up a new, eye-popping center in another part of Astana, abutting the Ishim River. It's filled with first-class restaurants and hotels and features the Palace of Peace, a glass pyramid designed by architect Norman Foster, and Bayterek, a 318-foot-tall tower meant to represent a tree, topped by a giant gold ball. Inside the observation tower is Nazarbayev's handprint, a symbol of his role as a Peter the Great figure for the Kazakhs. The country's ability to move forward relies almost entirely on oil. And oil's success depends on Kazakhstan's ability to export. But the overwhelming proximity of Russia makes the Kazakhs hesitant to challenge Moscow's will. Thus the ultra-cautious Nazarbayev has earned a reputation as a skillful balancer of Russia, China, and the U.S. Yet Kazakhstan and its American partners have still clashed with Russia over the Tengiz field and the use of Russian pipelines to ship oil. Just before Chevron took over the field in 1993, Tengiz was producing 60,000 barrels a day. The company intended to boost that number more than tenfold. But the day the field changed hands from the Kazakhs to Chevron, Moscow ordered the U.S. company to cut the flow in half, citing a strain on the Russian pipeline being used and signs of environmental danger. Russia then stalled the construction of a new pipeline Chevron planned for the transport of Tengiz oil through Russian territory. Frustrated, Chevron turned to that expensive rail route in Georgia. Eventually the Russians relented and helped Chevron build a 1,000-mile-long pipeline, terminating at Russia's Black Sea port of Novorossiysk. Yet the prolonged sparring with Russia slowed the growth of Kazakhstan's national income. Chevron thinks it eventually can produce nearly 1 million barrels a day at Tengiz. But that could be a decade away, and only if it can ship that volume—a big if. The problem is that Chevron wants to double its pipeline capacity through Russia so it can accommodate the increased flow from Tengiz. But Russia has said no, unless Chevron supports a new pipeline Moscow plans that would challenge a U.S.-backed pipeline in Azerbaijan, Georgia, and Turkey, which already is shipping oil. This new Russian route would reach the Mediterranean via Greece. Initially Chevron refused. But then the company saw that expansion of its own pipeline in Russia could be stalled indefinitely, so it changed its mind. Now the Russians are ready to deal. "We are in favor of increasing the supplies of Kazakh oil," says Mikhail V. Barkov, vice-president of Transneft, Russia's state pipeline monopoly, which helps administer the pipeline Chevron uses. Still, the pipeline expansion Chevron wants so badly in Russia is now at least three years away. So Kazakhstan and Chevron are back to the railroads, an arduous and costly process that will ship some 300,000 barrels a day in 13,000 tanker cars through Ukraine and Georgia. The Georgia warfare reminded everyone how fragile these networks are. A railroad bridge used for oil tanker cars was blown up, as were a number of oil cars. Some four-dozen Russian bombs fell next to Georgia's main pipeline, causing no damage but leaving huge craters. "Although all the basic transport routes through Georgia resumed operations, the image of the whole South Caucasian corridor has suffered," said Vagif Guseinov of Moscow's Institute of Strategic Studies & Analysis. The countries and companies involved seem to see in the bombing a message aimed at those operating or using the Georgia rail and pipeline corridor. The corridor's risk profile has risen considerably, says Jonathan Wood, global issues analyst for Control Risks, a consultancy. Insurance for all oil operations, for instance, could rise. And Russia will become a tougher negotiator when it comes to the pipelines. There will be "some reevaluation of what Russia might do, what it is really able to do, what sort of political will it has," says Pavel K. Baev, a senior researcher at the International Peace Research Institute in Oslo. Adds Simpson, the British lawyer: "If you are sitting in Azerbaijan or Turkmenistan, you are more likely to accommodate Putin when he comes knocking." What might Russia want? In June, Gazprom offered to buy every last cubic foot of the Azerbaijan government's natural gas production. Azerbaijan President Ilham Aliyev has so far resisted, mindful of the West's wish that he sell to Europe and lessen its dependence on Russian gas. Yet if he wants to expand the energy corridor through his country and Georgia, Aliyev might have to yield. The Kazakhs remain optimistic, especially Timur Kulibayev. The Caspian equivalent of a prince, the 42-year-old son-in-law of the President is the nation's leading oilman. Kulibayev thinks the transit network through the Caucasus will be protected because so many countries use it, thus offering safety in numbers. "We haven't suffered any problems, and we don't expect any," he tells journalists in his Astana office. Kulibayev also notes that next year China will finish a 400,000-barrel-a-day pipeline from Kazakhstan into its province of Xinjiang. If blockages to shipment through Russia and the Caucasus persist, China may be the only option for Kazakhstan's increased production. It would be ironic if after 15 years of struggle neither Russia nor the U.S. were to be the victor over Central Asia's oil and natural gas, and instead the spoils ended up going East.

The latest lesson for lenders from the housing crisis: Be careful what you wish for. Banks and other financial outfits spent eight years and $40 million lobbying for sweeping new bankruptcy rules that would limit their losses from deadbeat debtors. But it turns out those changes, enacted in 2005, are forcing more troubled borrowers to walk away from their homes—even those who didn't take on risky mortgages in the first place. And that's bad news for lenders, which suffer financially every time they have to take a troubled property on their books. Before the new rules kicked in, many consumers could find debt relief—and keep their homes—by filing for bankruptcy protection. Now the process is much more onerous and expensive and the benefits more limited, making foreclosure seem appealing by comparison. A July paper by David Bernstein, a researcher at the U.S. Treasury, found that 800,000 fewer homeowners have filed for bankruptcy since the rules kicked in. A quarter of those people, says the report, have likely had to give up their homes as a result—boosting foreclosures nationwide at least 4%. "[The rules] are directly responsible for the rising foreclosure rate," notes another report by investment bank Credit Suisse (CSR). Counters Philip Corwin, counsel at the trade group American Bankers Assn.: "These studies don't stand up to scrutiny." Banks and other lenders probably never imagined such an outcome when they pushed for changes to bankruptcy rules. The courts were clogged, the industry argued, with consumers looking for any easy out from bills they could pay. As a deterrent, companies wanted to raise the bankruptcy bar. They got what they wanted. Previously, anybody could file for Chapter 7, the quick and cheap proceedings that liquidate financial assets but not the home to cover debts and dismiss unpaid bills. Now only low-income borrowers qualify, and Chapter 7 doesn't stave off foreclosure. As a result, many struggling borrowers have no other option but Chapter 13, which requires that people follow a court-mandated repayment plan for all their debts, including medical, credit-card, and other bills typically discharged under Chapter 7. Going the Chapter 13 route can halt a foreclosure already in process. But that's often only a temporary salve, since other debts aren't eliminated, and banks can resume foreclosure proceedings as soon as the payments begin to slip anew. Says Chicago bankruptcy lawyer David P. Leibowitz: "In some cases, bankruptcy has become so onerous  that it's not worth it to save the house." The pain of foreclosures, of course, isn't limited to the people losing their homes. A single foreclosure cuts the value of nearby homes by an average of $1,508 nationwide, according to a report by the Joint Economic Committee of Congress (JECC). Lenders, too, are feeling the bite. Financial firms, the JECC found, take a $50,000 hit on each property they inherit via foreclosure. That weighs on earnings and limits their ability to make fresh loans. Cases such as Yvonne Reina's will mean more pain for everyone on the housing food chain. Reina hoped to keep her duplex in suburban Chicago by filing for bankruptcy. The 54-year-old claims processor fell behind on her mortgage payments after a knee injury left her unable to work. She consulted a lawyer about declaring Chapter 13. But he advised against it, saying the payment plan would be too burdensome, given her limited income. In March the bank foreclosed, and Reina moved into an apartment. Says Reina: "I just couldn't make it work anymore."

Yahoo’s holding a three-hour media day today to talk about its strategy of openness. That’s everything from bringing other Web content to its own Web sites and sending its own content out onto other Web sites to the software tools it provides developers so they can use Yahoo technologies in their services. I’m going to pass along brief notes from the event, so keep refreshing to get the latest. Yahoo’s clearly looking to leverage its 500 million monthly unique users to greater effect as social networks and, of course, Google search steal away users’ attention and clicks. From a business point of view, the basic goal of “Open At Yahoo,” the company’s wrapper for all its open efforts, says Yahoo Chief Technology Officer Ari Balogh, is pretty simple: to “unlock value inside Yahoo.” In other words, reading between the lines, Yahoo’s looking to show shareholders it’s worth a lot more than the $17 or so, the lowest level in nearly five years.

Will 2009 be the year of innovation economics? Pessimism about America's future is growing. People worry about the long-term impact of the housing crisis, global competition, and expensive energy. And the policy solutions offered by Republicans and Democrats—mainly tax cuts and government spending programs—seem insufficient. Yet beneath the gloom, economists and business leaders across the political spectrum are slowly coming to an agreement: Innovation is the best—and maybe the only—way the U.S. can get out of its economic hole. New products, services, and ways of doing business can create enough growth to enable Americans to prosper over the long run. Certainly the Presidential candidates are taking the idea seriously. John McCain has proposed a $300 million prize for the person or company that creates a better battery technology to power cars. Barack Obama has called for spending $150 billion over the next 10 years on clean-energy technologies. The hoped-for outcome: more jobs, more competitive trade, less dependence on foreign oil. But here's the conundrum: If money alone were enough to guarantee successful innovation, the U.S. would be in much better shape than it is today. Since 2000, the nation's public and private sectors have poured almost $5 trillion into research and development and higher education, the key contributors to innovation. Nevertheless, employment in most technologically advanced industries has stagnated or even fallen. The number of domestic jobs in the computer and electronics sector continues to plunge while pharmaceutical and biotech companies lay off as many workers as they hire. And even the industry category that includes Google (GOOG)—Internet publishing and Web search portals—has added only 15,000 jobs since 2003. The new field of innovation economics addresses this gap between spending and results. Economists are increasingly studying what drives successful innovation to learn how companies can get more bang from the bucks spent on R&D and higher education. At the same time, they're collecting new data on American R&D initiatives to understand what's working in the U.S. and what's not. And most important, economists are making concrete proposals about how to turn smart ideas into jobs and growth. This focus on innovation as a crucial way to develop a competitive edge is a big change from the past. While a handful of economists have studied technological change, the main focus of policy-minded economists has, until recently, been on traditional topics such as taxes, government spending, and trade. Now some of the brightest minds in the field, including Daron Acemoglu of Massachusetts Institute of Technology, winner of the 2005 John Bates Clark Medal for the top economist under 40, are paying a lot more attention. His work examines how government and business decisions such as outsourcing can influence the direction of technological change. But theorizing isn't enough without good data.  That's why government statisticians such as Lynda Carlson of the National Science Foundation are trying to find new ways to quantify innovation and its impacts on business. In January the NSF will launch an annual survey of 40,000 companies asking how much they spend on R&D in the U.S. and overseas, by type of business and country. "For the first time, we'll have a clear picture of what kind of research companies are doing globally and what benefits they are getting from their spending," says Carlson, who is spearheading the survey. Economists are also suggesting how to use new tools to boost innovation. They're studying when prizes for technological advances make sense. They're proposing ways state and local governments can best encourage innovation-based economic development. And they're exploring how to make optimal use of the billions of dollars' worth of research conducted in government-funded national labs. It's possible the longstanding partisan debate over tax rates and budget deficits may soon become a sideshow. "The main purpose of economic policy should be to spur innovation and growth," argues economist Robert Atkinson, head of the Information Technology & Innovation Foundation (ITIF), a nonpartisan think tank in Washington. "This is not an issue either party owns." Historically, technological change has been the biggest force for productivity growth in the U.S. The latest figures show that "multifactor productivity"—a category that includes technological change and other improvements in business processes—accounted for 45% of productivity gains between 1987 and 2007. "Ninety-five percent of economists agree that innovation is the most important thing for long-run growth," says Acemoglu of MIT. What's more, the best way to keep the U.S. competitive is to bank on promising new ideas. America still is a leader in resources devoted to innovation, as measured by the share of gross domestic product spent on R&D and higher education. But it can't compete with China, India, and other developing countries on labor costs. And it's unlikely the U.S. can depend on cheap capital because it borrows so much money from overseas. Indeed, personal, corporate, and government savings combined total only 14% of GDP in the U.S., vs. an average 22% among other industrialized nations. But innovation has fallen short of its promise in recent years. While some info tech corporations are still thriving, other sectors that were supposed to drive growth have faltered. Biotech companies have produced new drugs, but so far no real breakthroughs. And nanotechnology has been slow to generate commercial products. Worse, the historic link between jobs and innovation seems to have vanished, at least for now. In the past, pioneering industries such as automobile manufacturing and aerospace were big job creators. Today, jobs in cutting-edge sectors are down 12% since their 2001 peak. (Those industries include computer and communications hardware, software and computer-systems design, aircraft, drugs and medical devices, telecom, and Internet outfits such as Google and Yahoo! (YHOO)) Until recently, economists had few good remedies when innovation stopped producing enough tangible benefits. Thats because technological progress—the discovery of penicillin or the invention of the laser—was viewed mainly as the product of science and serendipity, and therefore not very responsive to economic forces. As a result, economists had only one blunt tool for stimulating innovation: larger government research grants and tax breaks for businesses. Economists for the most part treated R&D spending as an investment in a physical asset, just like an office building or truck. But there were always some who saw beyond this narrow view. In the 1940s, Joseph Schumpeter of Harvard University coined the phrase creative destruction to describe the necessary turmoil caused by innovation. Robert Solow of MIT won a Nobel Prize for economics for his work on technological progress and growth. And Dale Jorgenson of Harvard and William Baumol of New York University have been mentioned as potential Nobel laureates for their work in areas such as technological change and entrepreneurship. Economists began taking a broader interest in innovation during the New Economy boom of the 1990s, which was driven by breakthroughs in information technology. At the same time, economist Paul Romer, now at Stanford University, showed how spending on innovation was different from the usual sort of capital investment because the gains from new ideas and discoveries could be shared by everyone. Today, researchers are focusing on ways to make those undertakings more efficient. "Innovation is not just exerting effort and spending money, it's problem-solving," says Karim Lakhani, a professor at Harvard Business School. Lakhani has been studying what is called distributed innovation, in which solutions to a business or technical problem are solicited from a wide variety of people. Open-source software or companies like InnoCentive, which encourages outside researchers to work on corporate problems, are good examples. By contrast, most companies are unwilling to draw on outside expertise. "It's the broadcast of the problem that is important," argues Lakhani. "By publicizing a problem, we can get access to better ideas." Lakhani is encouraged by the growing number of prizes for innovative products, such as the Progressive Automotive X prize ($10 million for a car that gets 100 mpg). However, offering more—and smaller—prizes would allow a wider range of people to take on a challenge, he argues. "We want diversity of eyeballs." One way to attract broader attention to a problem is to conduct more R&D overseas. In part, that's because scientists and engineers in India, China, and Eastern Europe are cheaper than their American counterparts. In addition, global collaboration can improve results by bringing in more diverse perspectives. But globalizing research and production can also alter the direction of technological change—with potentially negative effects on U.S. prosperity. MIT's Acemoglu, who holds dual American and Turkish citizenship, argues in his work that in the past U.S. companies directed their research to take advantage of the well-educated American workforce. Now, as more multinationals move operations overseas, they are developing technologies adapted for their less skilled foreign workforces. In other words, offshoring is affecting the direction of innovation in ways that are more favorable to countries such as China and India. In particular, says Acemoglu, "China is going to have a major effect on technology." Measuring the impact of outsourcing and other factors on innovation will require far better statistics than are now available. That's why the NSF is pushing hard to collect greatly improved data on R&D and innovation, a tough task. Its new study aims to provide useful information for both businesses and policymakers, says Carlson, who helped create the government's statistics on energy consumption before she joined NSF in 2000. The survey will ask a wide range of questions, including whether companies are using their research to create new products or simply to improve existing ones. "The new statistics will provide benchmarks for companies," says Carlson, "and allow them to see how their R&D and innovation performance compares to the rest of their industry." Even as better data are collected, the government is also upgrading the system of economic statistics it uses to produce GDP figures. The goal: to shed more light on innovation and other drivers of growth. Late this year, the Bureau of Economic Analysis plans to publish a "blueprint for innovation" showing how the government stats can better capture innovation-related expenses such as education and R&D, says BEA director J. Steve Landefeld. What kinds of policies can improve the performance of U.S. innovation? Since 2000, the Bush Administration has boosted spending on nondefense R&D by roughly 40%, after adjusting for inflation. Still, more could be done. Democrat Obama wants to double federal funding for basic research, which in real terms is up just about 20% since 2000. Both the GOPs McCain and Obama want to boost support for the development of less polluting technologies. But a big point of innovation economics is that money  alone is not enough. Atkinson, of the think tank ITIF, argues that the R&D tax credit needs to be reworked to encourage collaboration. He suggests giving companies credit on their tax returns for 40% of the money they spend on research partnerships with universities and government laboratories, not just for their increased spending, as the current law allows. Atkinson also advocates creating a national foundation, similar to the NSF, with the mission of promoting innovation. The idea has some support: In June, Senators Hillary Clinton (D-N.Y.) and Susan Collins  (R-Maine) introduced legislation to set up a National Innovation Council. One of the hottest areas in the field is the use of government aid to cultivate "innovation clusters," or collections of local companies and academic institutions working together to create new products and processes. Ideally, those alliances would build on existing expertise in a region. Last November, for example, Maine voters passed a $50 million bond issue to help finance groundbreaking local business initiatives. In early August, grants totalling $29 million were announced, including funds to renovate a commercial pulp mill by adding a pilot plant to produce ethanol—without reducing the mill's usual output. Will innovation economics keep America growing? Proponents are upbeat about the long-term technological possibilities, despite the current pullback. "Like the 1970s, people are going to assume that a short-term slowdown means the trend is slower as well," says Stanford's Romer. "But the arguments for long-run optimism are as strong as they have ever been." Business Exchange related topics:US EconomyBusiness InnovationInnovation Economics

The following companies may have unusual price changes today in Latin America trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are from the previous close. Preferred shares are usually the most-traded class of stock in Brazil. The MSCI Latin America Index fell 5.1 percent yesterday to 3,368.57.

BusinessWeek (MHP) this week officially unveils a Web 2.0 initiative that's been in development over the past two years: Business Exchange, a powerful tool to keep tabs on business-related topics, from Apple (AAPL) (Apple) to YouTube (GOOG) (YouTube), from cloud computing (cloud computing) to retirement strategies (Retirement Strategies), and beyond. From the BusinessWeek.com home page, click on Business Exchange to track or create your own topics of interest. You can read, save, and add articles and blog posts on a subject, not just from BusinessWeek but from any Web site. Comment on a particular piece of news or analysis, or even write your own headline and description. Your actions help determine what lands on the "front page" of each topic. BusinessWeek's first foray into social media and online information aggregation is launching with numerous user-created topics, including ones focusing on companies such as Starbucks (SBUX) (Starbucks) and Coca-Cola (Coca-Cola) (KO); executives such as JPMorgan Chase's (JPM) Jamie Dimon (Jamie Dimon); and breaking news such as the bailout of Fannie Mae (FNM) and Freddie Mac (FRE) (Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac). Offering a smart human filter on the news, Business Exchange makes sense of the Web's treasure trove of information. Just as important as the mix of articles, blog posts, videos, white papers, and other resources you'll find in each topic is the perspective and input of the micro-communities that naturally form around them. Find out what fellow users, such as BusinessWeek.com Editor-in-Chief John Byrne (whose profile you can see at right), are tracking, pondering, reading, and sharing. Participate in any topic you like or create your own and invite colleagues to chime in. You'll get the most benefit by registering (which is free). And you can pull in your LinkedIn profile with a click. Log on and join in. We welcome your feedback.

I need your help. I’m working on a story about up-and-coming neighborhoods in major cities that are attracting young artists. These are places, such as the Bushwick section of Brooklyn, that are in the early stages of gentrification, where artists can still find affordable loft space and where mom-and-pop businesses haven’t yet been pushed out by the chain stores, restaurants, and coffee shops. Any place come to mind? Give me your best examples.

Editor's Rating: The Good: A call for green innovation to fix energy shortages, climate change, and the population explosion The Bad: Long-winded, and parts will be familiar to readers of the author's newspaper columns The Bottom Line: Required reading, with valuable sections on China 
Hot, Flat, and Crowded:Why We Need a Green Revolution—and How It Can Renew AmericaBy Thomas L. FriedmanFarrar, Straus & Giroux; 438 pp; $27.95
 When the U.S. Marines, General Electric (GE), and even China—an energy-poor, environmentally challenged industrial giant—are betting on green innovation to gain a competitive edge, you'd think U.S. policymakers would pay attention. Not yet, though, says Thomas L. Friedman in Hot, Flat, and Crowded: Why We Need a Green Revolution—And How It Can Renew America. It is urgent, he says in this cri de coeur, that we unleash U.S. creativity—and capitalism—on the challenges of energy and climate change. "There is only one thing bigger than Mother Nature and that is Father Profit, and we have not even begun to enlist him in this struggle," he writes. Expanding his horizons beyond globalization, the subject of The World Is Flat (2005), the three-time Pulitzer Prize winner argues that a trio of powerful dynamics is shaping our future. The "hot" of the title refers to global warming, or "global weirding," as he calls it, referring to the bizarre climate effects we are encountering. "Flat" refers to globalization, enhanced here with a look at how trade growth fuels energy use and hurts the environment. "Crowded" refers to humanity's relentless expansion and its perilous effects on biodiversity and the planet's finite resources. The only solution to these ills, he forcefully asserts: innovation in the form of a green revolution. Of course, these topics have been addressed by others: If Fareed Zakaria and Al Gore met and co-authored a long-winded book, this would be it. Many sections were first explored in Friedman's New York Times column, and with over 400 anecdote-chocked pages, Friedman asks a lot of the reader. Stay with him, though. Surprising material is scattered throughout, and the final sections may be the book's most rewarding. Its very sprawl emphasizes the scale of these problems and allows the author to make a strong case for the possibility and necessity of addressing them. With a tone of urgent hopefulness—or "sober optimism," as he says—he beseeches voters, executives, and politicians to get on with it. Friedman hops across the globe to document the intimate interplay of the three trends. In the jungles of Sumatra, he visits a conservation activist who worked with an energy developer and with villagers to create an economy that fosters rather than destroys the rainforest. Then Friedman is on to Iraq, where a U.S. general on the front lines installs solar panels to reduce the need to transport diesel to fuel electric generators. Cut to Connecticut, where CEO Jeffrey R. Immelt (a recurring character) talks up how tougher environmental standards have made GE's high-efficiency locomotives best-sellers and a leading export to China. Innovation, whether the result of policy or entrepreneurialism, is the key to these success stories. Unfortunately, America remains caught up in what Friedman calls a "dumb as we wanna be" mindset, where "drill, baby, drill" is an easier sell than long-term, comprehensive energy policy. This has security implications. There's a simple, negative correlation, says the author, between oil and democracy: As oil prices rise, petrodictators grow rich and democracies weaken. Conversely, as oil prices fall, petro-dictators grow weaker and democracies flourish. Think of the reforms of Russia and Iran in the 1990s, when oil prices were low, compared with the countries' troublemaking in the era of $100-per-barrel oil. What's more, he notes, petro-states tend to undereducate their youth, fueling unemployment and creating a breeding ground for terrorism. How to reverse this pattern? Radically cut energy demand and invent fantastic substitutes. Which brings us to China's green ambitions—and the U.S.'s failure. If you read only part of this book, let it be the final chapters, in which Friedman explores how China could emerge as a green prodigy. Sure, Chinese leaders unleashed two decades of environmental turmoil by replacing communism with "GDPism." But increasingly, Friedman says, those leaders are recognizing that environmental harm threatens not only the land, water, and air but also their political future. So they're acting. China's voluntary goal of decreasing carbon emissions, for example, would result in five times more greenhouse-gas savings than the targets set by Europe under the Kyoto Protocol. China also has higher national targets for renewable energy than the U.S. (where there are none) and tougher mileage rules for its burgeoning fleet of vehicles. If China's leaders see the necessity of this approach, Friedman wonders, why can't ours? Despite the scale of the challenge, he is optimistic that the political, technical, and economic means are at hand to spark a U.S. economic revolution. From windmills to advanced batteries, the results could mean new exports and jobs. When Friedman completed this book in July, he may have been encouraged by the green leanings of the men who eventually became Presidential contenders. If so, he has good reason to worry now. John McCain, the author of some of the Senate's most progressive climate proposals, is now promoting offshore drilling as a fix. And Barack Obama, having argued the potential of green innovation to jump-start economic growth, has become less vocal. Yet, Friedman is certain the public can tackle the challenge. He criticizes articles that offer "205 easy ways to save the earth." Such pandering implies that the revolution will be painless. It will not be: It will demand ugly political battles, the fall of dirty industries, and the rise of new, clean ones. "I am convinced," he writes, "that the public is ready; they're ahead of the politicians." For now, though, the petro-dictators are surely the only ones smiling.

There’s a lot of buzz these days around small businesses using online video for promotion. There appears to be some justification for all the hype. If you haven’t jumped into the online video pool just yet, consider that after viewing an online video advertisement consumers were motivated to take some action: 47% went to a Web site, 19% requested information about a product or service, 18% went to a store to check out a product, and 17% made a purchase, according to March 2008 data from The Kelsey Group. 
       
      What this means is that small businesses need to keep pace with this shift. Gone are the days of marketing strategies built solely around print and TV. The good news: As the number of advertising opportunities has grown, advertising costs have become more affordable for small businesses. 
       
      Today there are a number of cost-effective online video production services that have been developed specifically to address the needs of small businesses. With the help of companies like Spot Runner, TurnHere, VisibleWorld, and Mixpo, you can experiment with online video without making an enormous financial commitment. CityVoter has showcased a number of these videos on its local guides for small businesses, and they frequently show up very high in search results because there aren’t a lot of local business videos on the Web yet. 
       
      These videos are quickly becoming an important resource for many consumers searching for business information before making a purchase either online or offline. While online video may sound like just one more path for prospective customers to find you—along with digital photos, it’s one of the most important. So take a closer look at online video—it just might be an effective extension of your current marketing activities.
       
      Josh Walker
      CEO
      CityVoter Inc.
      Cambridge, Mass.

Editor's Note: In the original version of this story, a quote from Roger L. Simon, founder of blogging network Pajamas Media, was mistakenly attributed to Politico.com columnist Roger Simon.
 If I told you I invented a machine that could spot bias in what you read, would you believe me? Allegations of media bias can prompt the kind of reasoned discourse that results in newspaper vending machines stuffed with a material I'm told is too gross to mention here, as The Miami Herald once discovered. Despite that—or perhaps precisely because of it—former Microsoft (MSFT) executive Todd Herman sniffed a business opportunity. With the backing of early-stage venture fund Epic Ventures, he founded the Web site SpinSpotter.com, which went live in early September. SpinSpotter, through an application called Spinoculars that sits in your browser's toolbar, is programmed to spot certain indicators of potential bias. The software lets users share and submit troublesome phrases in news stories and opine on those called out by others. Journalism students will help referee the system, and the opinions of users deemed trustworthy by other SpinSpotters will carry more weight. Spinoculars works off six key indicators of spin—one of them is quoting partisan sources without clearly identifying their bias—which the company derived from guidelines from the Society of Professional Journalists' code of ethics and input from an advisory board of journalists. The six indicators are up on SpinSpotter.com, which also goes into tedious detail regarding its management's and advisers' political leanings. (Suffice it to say that left, right, and center are all represented.) A pre-launch tour of a SpinSpottered story revealed how the service highlights, in red, phrases that suggest opinions creeping into reportage. Users can then mouse over a red "S" icon near the offending words to see why they caught Spinoculars' attention and find a more neutrally phrased recasting. (I have to say this somewhere: Hilariously, SpinSpotter launches as the Republican Presidential campaign is rallying its base with its most overt anti-media rhetoric since 1992.) SpinSpotter will be ad-supported, and its ads will be based on what Herman calls "spark words"—hot-button phrases called out by Spinoculars. Ads will run in the Spinoculars pop-up windows that detail why phrases set the system off, and also on SpinSpotter.com itself, where Herman envisions discussion over whether certain phrases indicate bias. Toyota (TM), he says, might want to hang Prius ads around Spinoculars results for the phrase "gas guzzler." Should Spinoculars pick up on a news article that deems Windows Vista a "bug-filled failure," Herman says, Microsoft might well want to buy that particular phrase. And, naturally, he adds, "we would suggest Apple would want to do the same thing." Herman comes by his media smarts through an interesting career arc. He was a long-haired conservative talk-radio host in Salt Lake City and Seattle who then started and sold an early Web radio company, thedial.com, before spending years at Microsoft. His SpinSpotter is plainly ambitious. No one's yet taken a crack at combining ethics codes and the wisdom of the crowd to adjudicate media fairness. If it takes off, it could both clarify aspects of the news ecosystem and make serious mischief within it. Not necessarily a bad thing, that last bit. But me, I like nicely turned phrases. I like news stories that come through in full color better than those mired in straight factual gray. I don't mind sacrificing a bit of absolute , well, unbias to get that. And I don't mind a dash, or more, of perspective in much of the media I consume. Judging from two key examples—the Fox News Channel and how Keith Olbermann vented his spleen all the way to being MSNBC's top-rated talent—I'm not alone. Herman insists that he's not out to create "opinion eunuchs," but adds, "we look for objectivity and high-grade information vs. an attempt to convince." I prefer "fairness" over "objectivity" since the latter is slippery. As Roger L. Simon, founder of blogging network Pajamas Media and a SpinSpotter adviser, flatly concedes, "We're all biased." Which is why my fair is not your fair. Every hot-blooded Democratic or Republican blog howls with outrage over bias that's inflicted only on their side. I'm curious to see where SpinSpotter leads. But I'm also thinking I'm O.K. with today's quirks and biases, this pleasing cacophony of voices from all sides. In "Scanning News for Slant and Cant" (Opinion, Sept. 22), a quote ("We're all biased") from Roger L. Simon, founder of blogging network Pajamas Media, was mistakenly attributed to Politico.com columnist Roger Simon.

South Africa's FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index fell for a second day, sliding 46.91, or 0.2 percent, to 25,273.6. The following were among the most active stocks in the South African market today. Symbols are in parentheses.

The following companies may have unusual price changes in Canadian trading today. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are from yesterday's close in Toronto. The Standard & Poor's/TSX Composite Index fell 3.9 percent to 12,146.76, the lowest since Jan. 21.

South Africa's FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index added 255.93, or 1 percent, to 25,576.44 at 10:54 a.m. in Johannesburg, regaining some of yesterday's 3.5 percent loss. The following are among the most active stocks in the South African market today. Symbols are in parentheses.

The following stocks may have unusual price changes in European markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are from the last close. The Dow Jones Stoxx 600 fell 0.6 percent to 279.60. The Dow Jones Stoxx 50 Index declined 0.2 percent to 2,842.13. The Euro Stoxx 50 Index, a benchmark for nations using the euro, lost 0.7 percent to 3,261.07.

For decades, Procter & Gamble (PG) has been creating petroleum-derived materials that are engineering marvels. Tide bottles that don't explode if dropped from a high shelf onto a Wal-Mart (WMT) floor. Shampoo emulsions that don't separate, whether they're shipped by plane at 30,000 feet or warehoused at temperatures of 120F. Billions of disposable diapers that absorb, breathe, and stretch exactly the same way—wrapped in packages that never fade. Now P&G is joining the "go green" bandwagon. The problem, says Thomas J. Lange, the company's director of modeling and simulation: "Natural materials may not be as pure, as strong, or as stable over time" as petro-plastics. And developing replacements for them takes deep science that is beyond the ken of most companies. Enter Los Alamos National Laboratory and Sandia National Laboratories. That's right, the fabled weapons-research centers in New Mexico that spawned America's nuclear arsenal. In a partnership that has lasted 14 years, P&G is tapping the labs' supercomputers and immense brain trusts to create new eco-friendly materials for consumer products. "These are the only places I can go in the world that have such a range of world-class physicists, chemists, biologists, production engineers, and computational scientists," says Lange. "These labs are national treasures." Public-private collaborations such as P&G's are earning praise in many quarters. They're just what Congress had in mind two decades ago when it began pushing the nation's hundreds of national labs to transfer more of their knowhow to U.S. companies. Many of the facilities, which are dedicated to security, space, health, and energy research, jumped at the challenge. For one, they were eager to earn contract-research fees from corporations. And it was a chance to test their world-beating computer systems and software in some of the most demanding business settings. After a burst of deals in the late 1990s, however, the number of new research collaborations and commercial spin-offs declined. Scientists say the joint ventures and startups suffered from too much red tape. They also faced a drop in federal subsidies, the bursting of the tech bubble, and the task of coaxing scientists to think in business terms. "Without market signals, the labs have shown a predictable capacity to be overtaken by bureaucracy," says Carl J. Schramm, president of the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, which focuses on entrepreneurship. The casualties, Schramm says, are "speed, effectiveness, and inventiveness." Now, as the idea of "innovation economics" gains currency in Washington, executives are once again turning to the national labs, especially those such as Sandia, Los Alamos, Lawrence Livermore, and others that belong to the Energy Dept. These centers are still committed to national security. But at a time when U.S. industries are under pressure to address America's energy crisis while facing ever-tougher competition abroad, the labs understand they have an important role to play. Companies, for their part, know they can save on research costs when they partner with the labs. Together, Sandia and Los Alamos employ about 4,000 PhD scientists and thousands of engineers, and they have a long legacy of innovation in everything from biofuels and microelectronics to medical devices. P&G's collaboration with Los Alamos in computer simulation has saved the company upwards of $1 billion. Goodyear Tire & Rubber (GT) says Sandia helped radically speed up product launches, a key to its recent financial turnaround. The labs aren't simply collaborating. They're spinning off new tech companies amid the mesas and deserts of New Mexico. An industrial park on 240 acres abutting Sandia's sprawling Albuquerque compound boasts 27 startups that employ 2,184 people and have attracted $234 million in investment capital. All of these companies were founded by former Sandia scientists or rely on technology licensed from the lab. Los Alamos has helped spawn 54 spin-offs since 1997. A recent one, APJeT, is trying to commercialize an ionized gas known as atmospheric plasma, which was first developed by Los Alamos to kill anthrax spores. The company now uses the process to make fabrics water-resistant. Another of Los Alamos' affiliate, CNT Technologies of Seattle, is turning tiny carbon nanotubes into strong yarns that can be woven into sporting goods, aircraft parts, and artificial limbs. Goodyear and Sandia have been working together since 1993, when the Akron company enlisted the lab to help design and test new car tires. At the time, the company was running through at least four physical prototypes for each model of tire, which then would have to be tested over thousands of miles—a process that took three years on average. In exchange for fees that can run several million dollars a year, Sandia gave Goodyear access to supercomputers and software code it had developed to simulate explosions, design weapons systems components, or model the stresses on a bridge. Over the next decade more than a dozen Sandia scientists worked on software to assist Goodyear engineers. The code helped them to accurately predict how each design tweak would affect traction, pressure, and rubber wear under a range of road conditions and speeds. "It all adds up to a fairly nasty problem you have to solve," says Benjamin Spencer, a Sandia software developer who works with Goodyear. But there's a side benefit, Spencer says: The collaboration is "making our code more robust." The Goodyear project culminated in the Assurance TripleTred, which launched in 2005. It's a tire with three different treads for driving on icy, wet, and dry pavement. The program also enabled Goodyear designers to make use of such materials as volcanic pumice and glass microfibers, which aid the tire in gripping slick surfaces. The Assurance became one of Goodyear's best-selling tires, and the company has adopted virtual design for each of the several hundred new tires it develops every year for vehicles ranging from sports cars to garbage trucks to earth movers. The development cycle, which now often requires just a single prototype, has shrunk to as little as eight months, says Surendra Chawla, Goodyear's head of commercial tire research. The portion of the company's annual R&D budget consumed by testing and building molds for tire manufacturing has dropped from 40% to 15% since 2001, he says. Despite the obvious benefits that have flowed to Goodyear and P&G, however, only a handful of corporations have forged this sort of long-term collaboration. Companies complain that it takes too long—up to a year—to negotiate a joint R&D project or license technology from a federal lab. Officials at the labs have their own complaints: They say U.S. companies mainly want off-the-shelf technology they can use immediately, as opposed to investing in research that won't pay off for three to five years. Bureaucracy also is slowing the spin-off of startups. Unlike at universities, scientists at federal labs are barred from serving as paid consultants. And as long as they're on the government payroll, they can't hold equity stakes in companies that license their research. Moreover, few hard-core scientists want to trade secure posts at premier labs for risky jobs in industry. This is a stark contrast to Silicon Valley, where "people are spring-loaded to leave and begin their next startup," says Gary Ebersole, a serial entrepreneur from the San Francisco Bay area who moved to Santa Fe and licensed software from Los Alamos to start a social networking company. The National Labs want to lower the hurdles to entrepreneurship. They're offering staff two-year "entrepreneurial leaves" to give them a taste of life outside. They also understand that Congress wants to see scientists and their spin-offs succeed. So Los Alamos set up a fund that doles out $350,000 a year in seed capital to startups. Both Sandia and Los Alamos are experimenting with ways to let departing scientists maintain access to their facilities while working at startups. They even offer courses to familiarize their staff with entrepreneurship. "We don't yet have a model that is tuned to the nation's needs," says Sandia Chief Technology Officer Richard H. Stulen. "But we're getting better." 
Return to Business & America's Idea Economy

Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s Japanese golf business will hold its first promotional tour with investors overseas next month in a bid to tap new shareholders, especially in the U.K. Accordia Golf Co. President Michihiro Chikubu plans to visit more than 20 institutional investors in London and in Edinburgh, as Scotland is the home of golf, he said in an interview in Tokyo on Sept. 9.

The following is a list of companies whose shares may have unusual price changes in South Africa. Stock symbols are in parentheses after company names and prices are from the last close. South Africa's FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index lost 917.61, or 3.5 percent, to 25,320.51 in Johannesburg.

BusinessWeek readers are a voracious bunch. Much as we'd love to think they rely only on us, our readers turn to many other media brands on various platforms—including print, the Web, radio, and TV—on a regular basis. Starting this week, we are helping them do that. Business Exchange, a free online information hub, is a new initiative of BusinessWeek.com. It enhances the ongoing reporting and analysis of BusinessWeek writers and editors in print and online by aggregating other sources of news and analysis (including other media brands, blogs, videos, and research reports). Readers can use it to track business trends, with hundreds of topics available at launch, or create a specific topic that's not currently on the Exchange. The best part is the social underpinning of this platform. Users (including our journalists and editors) can share their own knowledge about a subject to enrich each topic far beyond what any single person or search engine can accomplish. Collaborating, commenting, and sharing will help make Business Exchange both useful and a lot of fun. It's also great for serendipity. I set up a topic on the economy and the election but also found myself checking out Exchange topics related to the Olympics as all eyes turned to Beijing this summer and Fannie Mae/Freddie Mac as events led to the recent government bailout. With this issue of the magazine, we're also tapping into the Exchange to offer other smart perspectives to readers alongside our own stories. We have been doing this in a feature called Links. Now we'll be providing additional news and insights through Business Exchange. As valuable as it is today, the Exchange is still evolving, and new features will be introduced every few weeks. Read more about Business Exchange on page 38 and then experience it on BusinessWeek.com. Be sure to tell us what you think.

1. Government takeover of Fannie and Freddie does nothing to cure the fundamental problems: Lenders are hobbled by losses, households have too much debt, and there's a record overhang of unsold homes. 2. The credit crunch and falling housing prices lead to weak consumer spending. Employers cut more jobs and business investment. Without work, households reduce their spending, which leads to even more job cuts. 3. Global investors abandon U.S. investments, figuring the U.S. government will try to escape its debt burden by inflating the currency. The Federal Reserve jacks up rates to defend the dollar, worsening the recession.

The U.K. Nuclear Decommissioning Authority, set up to operate and clean up state-owned sites, said it will auction land to build new reactors, rivaling plans by British Energy Group Plc. ``In recognition of the current market environment and the potential to gain optimal value, some land adjacent to three sites will be offered for sale via a competitive process,'' spokesman Bill Hamilton said today in an e-mailed statement. The land is next to the Wylfa, Bradwell and Oldbury sites, he said.

Stora Enso Oyj and UPM-Kymmene Oyj, Europe's largest papermakers, rose in Helsinki trading after saying they plan to close unprofitable production lines and cut 3,300 jobs. Stora advanced 5.7 percent to 8 euros, and smaller rival UPM increased 4.7 percent to 12.78 euros. Both gained as much as 11 percent earlier.

Nokia Oyj, the world's largest maker of mobile phones, said it has added Microsoft Corp.'s e-mail system to as many as 80 million devices. Microsoft's Mail For Exchange e-mail service will run on the third edition of Nokia's S60 operating software, currently used on 43 models, Espoo, Finland-based Nokia said in a statement today. The feature will also become available for all future versions of the E-Series corporate devices as well as Nokia's N-Series multimedia mobile phones, the company said.

San Diego Chargers Pro Bowl linebacker Shawne Merriman has decided to undergo season-ending surgery to repair two torn ligaments in his left knee. Merriman, 24, initially opted to forgo surgery -- against the advice of doctors -- and played in the Chargers' opening game with torn posterior cruciate and lateral collateral ligaments. He finished with two tackles in San Diego's 26-24 home loss to Carolina two days ago.

The following companies are having unusual price changes in Brazil trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are as of 4:15 p.m. New York time. Preferred shares are usually the most-traded class of stock. The Bovespa index gained for the first time in three days, rising 2.5 percent to 49,633.16.

The following companies may have unusual price changes in Hong Kong trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are as of the last close. The Hang Seng Index fell 1.5 percent to 20,491.11. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index, which tracks so-called H shares of Chinese companies, slid 2.8 percent to 10,825.25.

Australia's benchmark index fell, led by commodity stocks after metals prices slumped. Banks narrowed earlier losses after confidence was boosted by reports Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. was in talks to sell a stake. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world's biggest mining company, dropped 3.5 percent to its lowest since March after a measure of six metals traded on the London Metal Exchange slipped 2 percent. Rio Tinto Group slumped 5.1 percent to the lowest since January.

Automakers eyeing the flourishing Brazilian car market should take a look at what's going on in a quiet business park in the industrial town of Joinville. The story of a tiny Brazilian company, TAC, and its so-called urban vehicle, the Stark, holds some useful lessons for companies aiming to develop a promising product. Even before the roughly $50,000 car rolls off the assembly line next year, TAC has won prizes for innovation, including a gold in this year's IDEA/Brazil awards, sponsored by BusinessWeek. Adolfo Cesar dos Santos founded TAC in 2002 after an industry group in the southeastern state of Santa Catarina challenged companies to create a vehicle using local technology and manufacturing expertise. A mechanical engineer by training and a keen off-road driver, dos Santos decided to make his hobby his business. Given the competitive Brazilian auto market, dos Santos needed a niche. Since some 4x4s often can't handle rough terrain like the rainforest well, dos Santos hired product design firm Questto to create an upscale car that could take on the most challenging off-road exploration without skimping on urban driving comfort. Some six years, 38,000 research and development hours, and five prototypes later, the hard-topped Stark emerged. Slightly smaller than a Jeep Wrangler, the sport-utility vehicle will make its debut next month at the São Paulo Auto Show. With its tubular steel frame and exterior made from vacuum-molded plastics (superlight and rust-proof), the Stark is at once familiar and exotic. The car's creation was not without challenges. Given his own experience driving in daunting conditions, dos Santos found it hard to approve designs that didn't look rugged. "We had to remind him that this car was for the public, not for him," says Questto's director, Levi Girardi. Then Volkswagen (VLKAY) discontinued the flex-fuel engine, powered by ethanol or gas, that TAC had planned to use. So the company struck a deal with Fiat's (FIA) Brazilian unit, Fiat Powertrain (FPT), to install a 2.3-liter, 127-horsepower diesel engine, considered the optimal power source for off-road driving. An added bonus: FPT's 150 national dealers will have the option to sell the car, offering more distribution potential to tiny TAC. Even with Brazilian consumer confidence and demand for cars growing, dos Santos says he's aiming for just 0.4% of the nation's SUV market, an estimated 233,000 vehicles next year. In 2009, 515 Starks will roll off TAC's assembly line. Dos Santos is hoping to nearly triple that number by 2014. Success isn't a given. Rivals include Chrysler's Jeep Wrangler, which with taxes and import fees will have a higher sticker price than the Stark. But true to the spirit of off-road driving, negotiating such hurdles should be part of the fun. 
Return to Business & America's Idea Economy

U.S. officials said ``the vast majority'' of television viewers in Wilmington, North Carolina, anticipated a change to digital television and seemed prepared as the region became the first market to drop analog signals. The Federal Communications Commission said in a statement today it received calls from 1,221 people who needed help with their television reception after the five-county market switched. Local agencies and broadcasters reported 700 callers.

Shivnarine Chanderpaul became the first West Indian winner of the International Cricket Council's Player of the Year award after scoring 819 Test runs during the qualifying period. Chanderpaul, 34, whose average was 91 from eight Test matches in the past year, collected the award at a ceremony in Dubai yesterday. South Africa's Dale Steyn took the Test Player of the Year prize, while India's Mahendra Singh Dhoni was named the best one-day cricketer.

In the oil patch, they are calling it the "shale sweepstakes"—a fevered rush to purchase drilling rights to natural gas that lies deep in deposits of shale rock. Output from these fields has been on a rocket ride for the past four years. It is the reason why natural gas production overall in the U.S. is expected to jump 8% in 2008, after nearly a decade of no growth. This is good news for consumers who'll be turning up their gas furnaces this winter. Natural gas prices have fallen 50%—much steeper than oil—in the past two months, to a recent $7 per 1,000 cubic feet. All the new shale development could keep a lid on natural gas prices for years to come. The oil companies, says Ed Siefert, president of market researcher RigData, "are all spending money like drunken sailors."

Indian stocks fell for a second day, led by metals producers, as a drop in commodity prices heightened concern that global economic growth is slowing. Tata Steel Ltd., the country's largest maker of the alloy, and Steel Authority of India Ltd., the second-biggest producer, both lost at least 5 percent amid speculation demand will fall. Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd., the nation's biggest copper and zinc producer, slumped 12 percent. Stocks also dropped as government figures showed overseas investors sold a net $7.18 billion in Indian equities this year.

Sweden may fail in its effort to stop Russia from increasing export tariffs on wood, and may react by withdrawing support for a Russian membership in the World Trade Organization, Swedish Trade Minister Ewa Bjoerling said. Reaching an agreement this year is difficult because of Russia's conflict in Georgia, though Sweden will continue to push for an accord, Bjoerling told a Swedish forest industry meeting today. Raising tariffs would breach agreements with the European Union regarding Russia joining the WTO, she said.

Deutsche Bank AG, Germany's biggest bank, will pay a record $575,000 fine to settle New York Stock Exchange claims its traders made short sales without ensuring they could borrow shares to complete the bets. The fine is the largest ever levied by regulators at NYSE's Arca exchange, said Scott Peterson, a spokesman for the watchdog. At least five trading desks for the bank's securities division broke federal and exchange rules from 2005 to 2006 by shorting shares that traders hadn't arranged in advance to obtain and that the bank hadn't deemed ``easy to borrow,'' the regulator said today.

The National Football League is the first professional sports league to have its franchises average over $1 billion in value, with the Dallas Cowboys remaining atop Forbes magazine's annual rankings. The average value for an NFL team this year is $1.04 billion, mostly because of revenue from seating and sponsorships at new stadiums, Forbes reported in its ranking of the 32 teams. The Cowboys, owned by Jerry Jones, are worth $1.61 billion, a 7 percent increase over 2007.

European government bonds rose as Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. reported a third-quarter loss of $3.9 billion, raising speculation it may not survive the credit- market turmoil, boosting demand for the safest assets. Two-year notes led the gains as Lehman said it will sell a majority stake in its investment-management operations. German bunds also advanced after the European Commission cut its growth estimate for the euro area this year and signaled it may also lower its 2009 forecast as the U.S. and Asian economies cool.

The U.K.'s Nationwide Mercury Prize judges last night burnished their reputation for surprises by handing the 2008 award to Elbow, an alternative rock band which has only released four albums over a 17-year career. Elbow, formed in Bury, northern England, was first nominated for a Mercury seven years ago for its debut. The quintet has not enjoyed commercial success or fame to match the critical raves for its music. The group's ``The Seldom Seen Kid,'' released in March 2008 on Fiction Records, mixes progressive rock with soaring songs such as ``The Loneliness of a Tower Crane Driver,'' which the band performed at the award ceremony.

U.S. stocks advanced after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. said it will shore up capital by selling assets, FedEx Corp. beat profit estimates and energy shares rallied with oil. Lehman advanced 2.5 percent, rebounding from yesterday's record plunge, on plans to sell a majority stake in its asset- management unit, spin off commercial real estate and slash its annual dividend 93 percent. FedEx climbed 2.9 percent as the largest air-parcel shipper said lower fuel costs drove quarterly earnings above projections. Exxon Mobil Corp. climbed 2 percent, leading energy stocks to the biggest advance among 10 Standard & Poor's 500 Index industries, as crude increased.

Prezzo Plc, the U.K. operator of more than 130 Italian restaurants, fell in London trading after reporting a 51 percent drop in first-half profit and saying profit margins won't improve. Prezzo lost 1.5 pence, or 4.2 percent, to 34.5 pence, giving the Woodford Green, England-based company a market value of 79.1 million pounds (139 million).

Adam Scott, the world No. 15-ranked golfer, said Asia shouldn't ``give away'' events, as officials of the region's flagship tournament in Singapore consider ceding half the field to European Tour players. The $5 million Barclays Singapore Open, Asia's joint-most lucrative event, may be co-sanctioned with the European Tour as early as 2009, a move that might halve the spots for members of Asia's premier international circuit.

The following companies had unusual price changes in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are as of 4 p.m. in New York. AeroVironment Inc. (AVAV US) climbed 18 percent, the most since January 2007, to $34.73. The maker of U.S. military spyplanes reported quarterly profit of 22 cents a share, exceeding the average analyst estimate by 24 percent, according to Bloomberg data.

Advanced Digital Broadcast Holdings SA, a Swiss maker of equipment needed to view digital television, will start buying back as many as 330,000 of its own shares today. The buyback is the equivalent of 5.3 percent of outstanding shares, which have a nominal value of 25 Swiss centimes (22 cents), the Grand-Saconnex, Geneva-based company said today in an e-mailed statement.

Talk about a public relations problem. Imagine spending years sinking vast quantities of money, time and ambition into an intricately complex project only to face accusations just before the project's debut that you might accidentally bring about the end of the world. This, essentially, is the PR issue facing the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) as scientists on Wednesday plan to send the first beam of protons around the 27-kilometer (17-mile) long loop buried deep below ground not far from Geneva, Switzerland. Physicists say that the €6.4 billion ($9.2 billion) project—the lion's share of which came from European countries—may provide unique new insights into how our universe was formed, the existence of "dark matter" and even the possible reality of a number of new dimensions.

Ashton Kutcher's practiced finesse and stage presence were completely out of place at the TechCrunch50 conference earlier this week, but his appearance was the talk of the show. Kutcher wasn't in San Francisco to run a casting call for Beauty and the Geek, but to launch a Web video show focused on something about which he knows a fair amount: celebrity gossip. Celebrity spokespeople are a fact of life at this point, but celebrity tech founders? Like so many things, it's a phenomenon that gets frothy every time there's a bubble. And with the rise of online video, there are opportunities galore for celebrities to bring their content experience to the table and contribute something of value to the projects of their techie co-founders and venture backers. Meanwhile, social Web tools give celebrities a way to meet their fans on their own terms. No tech conference would be complete these days without a token celebrity entrepreneur.

by The Associated Press Government officials handling billions of dollars in oil royalties engaged in illicit sex with employees of energy companies they were dealing with and received numerous gifts from them, federal investigators said on Wednesday, Sept. 10.

Apple watchers have high expectations for the company's signature events. There's always a palpable buzz in the air as Chief Executive Officer Steve Jobs takes the stage, followed by a virtuosic keynote, filled with humor and digs at the competition. And there's almost always some game-changing product or service—often more impressive than anyone expected. So what happened on Sept. 9? Apple's presentation was held at San Francisco's Yerba Buena Center for the Arts, a smaller venue than usual. Moscone West, where Apple has held many events in past years, had been booked for a wireless industry show. And this time, Jobs calmly walked through a series of more workaday announcements, all of which had been predicted in the blogosphere in the previous days and weeks.

Stocks moved higher Wednesday after Lehman Brothers (LEH) made a series of surprise announcements designed to bolster investor confidence one day after the investment bank's troubles triggered a broad stock market sell-off. On Tuesday, an investment deal with a South Korean bank appeared to fall apart, causing the investment bank's shares to plunge 45%. That prompted Lehman Brothers to release earnings a week early and announce measures to keep the firm afloat.

In its 15 years of existence, Gome Electrical Appliances has become China's largest electronic retailer—with a 12% market share according to the company's internal estimates. The Beijing-based company started by selling TV sets, air conditioners, and refrigerators at low prices by cutting out the middlemen and purchasing directly from manufacturers. Now, Gome (despite the unconventional spelling, the name is pronounced Guo Mei and means "beautiful nation") has shifted its focus to selling Dell (DELL) laptops, Apple (AAPL) iPod nanos, and Motorola (MOT) cell phones. "Small items don't occupy too much of the store space, but the margins may be even better than the traditional electronics," says Wang Gao, a professor at Tsinghua University who runs an executive development program for Gome. Gome's new strategy has helped propel the retail giant to No. 46 in BusinessWeek's Asia 50. Hong Kong-listed Gome's profit surged 38%, to $165 million, in 2007 on sales of $6.2 billion. Goldman Sachs (GS) is forecasting Gome to earn $394 million in profits this year from sales of $7.2 billion. Gome's actual profits and sales are most likely even higher because parts of the company were not injected into the listed company when founder Wong Kwongyu took Gome public through a back-door listing in June 2004. According to Gome's 2008 interim earnings report, its listed entity had 828 stores in China as of June 30, but Gome says the group currently has 1,300 stores.

The government's Sept. 7 bailout of mortgage giants Fannie Mae (FNM) and Freddie Mac (FRE) will add much-needed liquidity to the secondary market for U.S. mortgages. But it does little to resolve some bigger problems: excessive housing inventories, home prices that continue to drop, and the likelihood of mounting defaults and foreclosures as the economy worsens, say market analysts. The Treasury Dept., by signing contracts with the government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs) under which it agreed to buy $1 billion of what are being called super-preferred shares, effectively wiped out the remaining value in existing common and preferred shares. The deal calls for the suspension of the dividends being paid to preferred and common shareholders in order to conserve cash while the companies are being run by their regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Administration (FHFA).

Take your pick: dump Lehman Brothers (LEH), or Merrill Lynch (MER)? While Lehman's free fall on Sept. 9 (BusinessWeek.com, 9/9/08) seized the market's attention, some big investors have decided to jettison Merrill's shares, too. Why? They say with additional writedowns expected from the investment bank, its stock, now at 25.15 a share, looks more vulnerable to downswings than Lehman's, which hit a new 52-week low, at 8.59 a share. Just a week ago shares of Lehman traded at more than 16, tumbling from a 52-week peak of 66 on Feb. 1. Merrill had also been one of the market's highfliers, streaking to a 52-week high of 78.66 nearly a year ago on Sept. 19. However, the firms shares have since been on the ropes and are poised to sink below a 52-week low of 23.82 reached on Aug. 18. (A Merrill spokeswoman declined comment for this story.)

Around the globe, speculation is rife about the fate of nuclear-armed North Korea. Intelligence officials in the U.S. and South Korea are openly discussing the possibility that longtime Stalinist leader Kim Jong Il, 66, is sick and may not remain in power for long. Some even raise the prospect of an outright collapse of North Korea's communist regime or a messy power struggle in this reclusive country locked in the world's last cold-war confrontation. Informed North Korea experts in Seoul largely brush aside such scenarios, at least for the short term. The National Intelligence Service, the South Korean equivalent of the CIA, has said Kim has been suffering from chronic heart disease and diabetes but that his life is not in danger. Moreover, they say, there are no signs the North Korean elite is in disarray despite Kim's conspicuous absence from celebrations on Sept. 9 marking the 60th anniversary of the country's founding.

After the government takeover of Fannie Mae (FNM) and Freddie Mac (FRE) on Sept. 7, many observers have wondered if the next financial domino to topple would be beleaguered investment bank Lehman Brothers (LEH). Lehman is not sitting still, however, and on Sept. 10 the firm announced a number of moves (BusinessWeek.com, 9/10/08) to help it shore up its capital, including the sale of a majority stake in its investment management business and a big cut in its quarterly divided. It also reported a $3.9 billion third-quarter loss. Here is a roundup of what Wall Street analysts, strategists and other experts had to say about the Lehman situation on Sept. 10, as compiled by BusinessWeek and Standard & Poor's MarketScope.

Internet radios don't get much respect. This has always bothered me. The idea that you can make a device able to play radio streams from all over the world seems so drop-dead simple and certain to succeed that a part of me is dumbfounded that all household radios aren't Internet-ready by now. Then I spent the last several days listening to Tivoli Audio's Networks radio from my house on Eastern Long Island. There I enjoyed one of the best radio stations in the world—Jazz.FM91, based in Toronto, more than 400 miles away. I wouldn't be able to hear this station on a conventional FM radio. But the Networks radio tuned right into the station via the Internet, using a Wi-Fi zone created by my Apple (AAPL) Airport Extreme Wi-Fi router.

OPEC's decision to cut oil production, announced early in the morning on Sept. 10, took most analysts by surprise. The move, which could take about 520,000 barrels a day of oil off the market, is a sop to price hawks, such as Iran and Venezuela, as well as Chakib Khelil, the energy minister of Algeria and current president of OPEC. It was also a mild loss for Saudi Arabia, which has worked to lower prices in recent months. Following the news, oil prices rose about $1 per barrel in trading in Asia, to $103.75, according to Reuters. What clearly prompted the action was the nearly 30% plunge in oil prices from their high of $148 per barrel on July 11. OPEC was worried that prices would continue to fall. Weakness early this week—despite the presence of a major hurricane threatening U.S. oil installations around the Gulf of Mexico—only added to the unease.

Your mother doesn't see as well as she used to, and sometimes has trouble walking. You wonder if it's a good idea for her to stay alone in that house, or if there is a better option for her. But you just can't stomach the idea of putting mom in a nursing home. You're not alone.

Until recently, Scandinavian banks had good reason to be smug. Unlike other European financial institutions such as UBS (UBS) and Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS), which have suffered multibillion-dollar writedowns tied to risky subprime U.S. investments, the more conservative northern banks mostly steered clear of securitized assets and other new instruments. Instead, they made money the old-fashioned way, investing extensively in the booming economies of Eastern and Central Europe—especially their closest neighbors, the Baltics. While other banks were unveiling big losses, Swedish and other Nordic banks continued to thrive from double-digit economic growth and soaring housing prices in countries rimming the eastern edge of the Baltic Sea.

For some time, it was relatively easy for executives at European Aeronautic Defence & Space (EAD.PA) to envision how their win in the U.S. Air Force's tanker contract would spin forward. After securing a piece of that lucrative $35 billion deal in partnership with Northrop Grumman (NOC), EADS North America would truly start taking on North America—Boeing's (BA) home turf. After building a factory in Mobile, Ala., to assemble the airborne tankers, the two companies could shift production out of Europe, taking advantage of favorable exchange rates and lower labor costs. They could combine workforces and suppliers, and reduce overhead. They could bid for more military projects and sell commercial planes—for less. EADS' economies of scale—it is the parent of commercial jet builder Airbus—would make the team a formidable competitor to Boeing on many fronts. Today the tanker, tomorrow, perhaps, Air Force radar aircraft and more commercial airliners for U.S. carriers.

Pointing to several industry "firsts", Sony Chairman and CEO Howard Stringer said Tuesday the company has "recovered" in all areas that it was seen to be having difficulties. The Sony chief was speaking to the media during his first visit to Singapore since he took over the company helm in 2005. One area in which Sony is leading the industry is OLED (organic light-emitting diode) television sets—a "true major milestone", said Stringer. The company first launched its OLED product last December in Japan, released it in North America early this year and is now introducing it in Europe. "Other companies are advertising the same thing for the future but we have it now," he proclaimed.

The Lord of the Rings Online: Shadows of Angmar became a huge hit, drawing both fans of hardcore massively multiplayer online role playing games (MMORPG, for short) and fans of the trilogy. Now it expands with the forthcoming Mines of Moria, which will introduce a new class cap, along with six new books filled with hundreds of quests. Like Shadows, Mines of Moria introduces a cast of characters familiar to those who are avid readers of the J.R.R. Tolkien books, along with Peter Jackson's stunning film trilogy. You'll run into wizards, hobbits, orcs and other classes as you work your way through Middle-earth, heading for the Mines of Moria, a sacred place for dwarves. These areas are filled with industrial equipment, secrets, dangerous creatures and items pivotal to The Lord of the Rings universe.

The U.S. Defense Dept., saying it has run out of time to conduct one of the largest, most politically contentious acquisitions in military history, announced on Sept. 10 that it would end the competition for $35 billion in new aerial refueling tanker aircraft. The contract, initially won by Northrop Grumman (NOC) and European Aeronautic Defense & Space (EAD.PA), and successfully contested by Boeing (BA), will now be decided by a new President and Congress next year. Defense Secretary Robert Gates, noting the level of politicization, emotions, and complexities that include the potential for continuing legal and political challenges, called for a "cooling off" period. He also acknowledged the military's own mishandling of the contract. He asserted that the delay would not impair the military's ability to do its job, due to continuing upgrading and maintenance of the existing tanker fleet, some of which dates to the Cold War era and the Air Force sought to replace—as a top priority—years ago.

MORGAN KEEGAN UPS ESTIMATES, MAINTAINS MARKET PERFORM ON FEDEX Morgan Keegan analyst Art Hatfield says FedEx (FDX) preannounced first quarter EPS of $1.23, up from its previous guidance range of $0.80-$1.00, with the results driven by lower-than-expected fuel prices at the end of the quarter combined with cost management. He notes, however, that management is maintaining its fiscal year 2009 (May) EPS guidance of $4.75-$5.25 as slowing economic growth is extending globally.

The Essar-owned $330-million Aegis BPO is once again on prowl. It plans to buy four BPOs in a year. Aegis has already acquired 11 companies during last four years. "We are in talks with over six BPOs and plan to close deals with at least four of them. Our plan is to add a company every quarter as part of our inorganic and organic growth. Cash is not a problem as we have cash-rich Essar Group as our parent," says Aegis CEO Aparup Sengupta.

S&P REITERATES HOLD RECOMMENDATION ON SHARES OF LEHMAN BROTHERS (LEH; 8.02): We view restructuring plans announced today favorably, but we remain cautious on the shares based on extensive remaining execution risk. We think shareholders benefit from a spinoff of commercial real estate assets, but mark-downs may remain for November-quarter. We think a sale of the investment management stake would provide capital and allow for some participation in profits, but terms are not yet set. We think long-term LEH profitability is impaired but not compromised. Our fiscal year 2008 (November) loss estimate widens to $10.26 from $7.44, and we trim our target price $6 to $14, 0.5 times book value. -M. Albrecht

After dominating the boxing ring with Fight Night Round 3, Electronic Arts is back with Facebreaker. Instead of taking the ultra-serious route, however, this is an arcade-style game with several humorous characters to knock around. It's not bad, although the game is plagued by severe balancing issues. Some boxers are more talented than others, and online match-ups are unfair, resulting in a Facebreaker finisher and a quick end to the match. At least the Create-a-Boxer mode is great, enabling you to scan yourself or a picture of someone into the game. That feature, plus the humorous characters and special moves, make Facebreaker worth a few rounds.

It's not every day that Square Enix releases a game for Xbox 360, so we expected Infinite Undiscovery to be an original and exciting action RPG. What we received is a boring, by-the-numbers adventure that once again casts us as a weak and at times clueless young boy that must destroy evil. Menus are cluttered and difficult to navigate, since opening them does not pause the game, the voice actors sound goofy, the game makes awkward transitions from spoken to readable dialogue, the action slows down when there's a lot of action on screen and the bland outdoor scenery fails to pique our interests. We're not against replaying similar games. Nintendo abuses the young boy formula with the Zelda series, but we expect these games to feature addictive combat and a gripping narrative. Sadly, Infinite Undiscovery has neither.







































































































Think the U.S. real estate slump is bad? Get ready for China's. PICC Asset Management, an  affiliate of AIG, figures prices for residential housing could fall by as much as 50% over the next decade. One sign that China's real estate bubble may be set to burst: In Beijing the ratio of home prices to household income, a traditional gauge of affordability, has hit an all-time high of 28.8. The World Bank considers a ratio of five to be a healthy norm.

On Sept. 30, President George W. Bush signed a spending bill that will eventually offer $25 billion in low-interest loans to carmakers producing in the U.S. so they can retool. From the look of things, they're going to need the money. September was another rotten month, with Chrysler, Ford (F), Nissan (NSANY), and Toyota (TM) all reporting sales drop-offs of more than 30%. General Motors (GM) fell 16% even with employee prices extended to every buyer. GM tapped the remaining $3.5 billion on a $4.5 billion credit line on Sept. 19 to meet cash needs.

Dish Network (DISH), once the fastest-growing outfit in the satellite universe, just got hit by an asteroid. On Sept. 26, AT&T (T) abandoned its arrangement to provide Dish subscribers with Web and phone services. Instead, AT&T signed with DirecTV (DTV), which already had agreements with Verizon and Qwest (Q). The deals allow satellite companies to compete with cable operators, which offer a bundle of video, data, and phone services. Even before AT&T's defection, Dish's subscriber numbers were falling. Analysts speculate that the switch may boost DirecTV's 17 million subscribers, second only to cable giant Comcast (CMSCA), by about 400,000. Dish has 13.8 million.

Microchips: They're the vital electronic innards of the U.S. military's jets, ships, and  communications networks.  But a growing number of those millions of tiny circuits are turning out to be fakes. A BusinessWeek investigation reveals that counterfeit chips, which can cause accidents—and  possibly facilitate foreign  espionage—are flowing from China to dubious parts brokers in the U.S. and into weapons made by defense contractors  for the Pentagon.

Readers reacted to our package of articles on the financial crisis ("Wall Street Staggers," Cover Story, Sept. 29) with frustration and bafflement. Some demanded to know where the regulators and prosecutors were when the  housing and credit bubbles expanded dangerously.  Others argued that politicians who increased home ownership as a social policy only encouraged borrowers and lenders to sign on to reckless mortgages that never had a chance of being repaid—a big element of the current mess. And a theme running throughout the comments: If there's any justice in the world, a lot more of Wall Street's mammoth-bonus boys would be anticipating bankruptcy now rather than a federal rescue. "Will these Gordon Gekkos go unscathed," one reader asked.  —Paul M. Barrett Nobody forced financial institutions to leverage themselves so highly. Nobody forced banks to give no-documents-required, interest-only, or balloon-payment loans—or to securitize subprime mortgages into AAA-rated securities.

If anyone needed more evidence that the financial world has turned upside down, here it is: Investors can pocket a higher yield from tax-exempt  money-market mutual funds than from their taxable counterparts. Normally, tax-exempt yields are lower than taxable yields, since the tax hit is so much less. Take the taxable Vanguard Treasury Money Market Fund (VMPXX). It invests only in short-term U.S. Treasuries and sported a yield of 1.65% on Sept. 29. That compares with a yield of 5.67% on the Vanguard Tax-Exempt Money-Market Fund (VMSXX). So an investor in the 35% federal tax bracket filing jointly and paying what the Tax Foundation calculates is an average 9.7% state and local tax burden (since the securities come from municipalities around the country) earns a 5.1% yield on the tax-exempt fund compared with 1.05% for the taxable Treasuries. In the 28% tax bracket, the yield difference is 5.1%, vs. 1.16%. Yields on the taxable Vanguard Prime Money Market Fund (VMMX), a well-diversified fund, are also lower than the tax-exempt one. It seems investors are being well compensated for the somewhat greater risk that muni money-market funds will suffer as a result of the credit crunch.

The official committee representing asbestos claimants of Arizona copper-mine owner Asarco LLC filed papers in bankruptcy court yesterday asking the judge to require that Asarco's parent, Grupo Mexico SAB, deposit $2.7 billion before going ahead with its proposed reorganization plan for Asarco. Grupo Mexico filed its reorganization proposal in late August to compete with the plan filed by Asarco. Grupo Mexico says its plan assures payment in full to all creditors. Even before yesterday's court filing, a representative of asbestos claimants came out in opposition to the Grupo Mexico plan.

There is life after a breakup of a proposed buyout deal. When video-game company Take-Two Interactive Software (TTWO) got an offer from No. 1 Electronic Arts (ERTS) to acquire it for $26 a share on Feb. 22 (TTWO was then trading at 17), its stock zoomed to 26.89 the next trading day. But when Electronic Arts pulled its offer in early September, Take-Two's stock fell. It's now at 15.93. So what's next for the maker of the popular Grand Theft Auto IV? Some investors are now more bullish, as the stock has plunged and the prospect of another offer is still possible. "We liked Take-Two seven months ago below 20, and things have only improved since then," says Doug Cruetz of investment firm Cowen, who upgraded the stock on Sept. 29 to outperform from neutral. The outlook for sustained growth and more consistent profitability continues to strengthen, he says.

Nokian Renkaat Oyj, the world's most profitable publicly traded tiremaker, is plunging with Russian stocks as the ruble falls and commodity prices tumble. The decline may not let up as pressure from larger competitors grows. Pirelli & C. SpA and Bridgestone Corp. are targeting the Nokia, Finland-based company's 30 percent share of Russia's premium replacement-tire market.

Nikolay Davydenko was cleared of any wrongdoing as the men's tennis tour ended an investigation into gambling on one of his matches last year. The ATP Tour opened the probe after the odds on Davydenko, the then-No. 4 player in the world, lengthened even after the Russian won the first set from Martin Vassallo Arguello of Argentina in a second-round match at the Poland Open. Davydenko quit with a foot injury in the third set after splitting the first two.

The S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 89.50 points, or 1.9 percent, to 4,903.80 at the close in Sydney. The broader All Ordinaries Index gained 85.60 points, or 1.8 percent, to 4,957.10, while the futures index expiring in September advanced 1.8 percent to 4,919. Mining shares: BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP AU), the world's largest mining company, rose A$1.53, or 4.4 percent, to A$36, the most since Aug. 20. Rio Tinto Group (RIO AU) gained A$4.70, or

The following companies are having unusual price changes in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are as of 4 p.m. in New York. Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG US) dropped the most since McDonald's Corp. (MCD US) spun it off in 2006, sliding 20 percent to $56.70. The burrito chain said third-quarter profit is ``slightly below'' a year earlier because of the sluggish economy and higher food costs.

XL Leisure Group Plc grounded all flights and stranded thousands of passengers as court-appointed administrators took control of the tour operator, the second British travel company to collapse in a month. XL's Web site today said the company was unable to obtain further funding amid ``volatile'' fuel prices and slowing economic growth. The U.K.'s Civil Aviation Administration said as many as 89,000 people may be stuck overseas, and another 200,000 have bookings with the Crawley, England-based company.

The following companies may have unusual price changes in Germany. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are from the previous close. DAX futures rose 72.50, or 1.2 percent, to 6,232 as of 8:24 a.m. in Frankfurt. Germany's benchmark DAX index retreated

The following companies are having unusual price changes in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are as of 10:50 a.m. in New York. Retailers fell after sales at stores unexpectedly dropped in August as Americans retrenched in the face of mounting job losses and record foreclosures.

The following is a list of companies whose stocks may have unusual changes in Paris. Symbols are in parentheses after company names and prices are from the last close. France's CAC 40 Index retreated 34.59, or 0.8 percent, to 4,249.07, declining for a third day. The SBF 120 Index lost 0.9 percent.

Deutsche Boerse AG, operator of the Frankfurt stock exchange, rejected a call from its two-largest investors to sell its equities unit or merge with another European exchange, saying the board unanimously agreed that the group remain unified. ``Deutsche Boerse regard the ongoing implementation and continuation of the existing strategy of the integrated business model'' as the best option for shareholders and customers, the company said in an e-mail today.

Most discussions about downsizing focus on the legal, economic, or psychological issues raised by this practice. These are essential concerns, but we rarely consider how or why downsizing is also an ethical issue. The next two columns are an attempt to redress that problem. Here, we'll consider your ethical responsibilities if you are the one charged with giving the bad news. In the second column, we'll look at what you ought and ought not to do if you are the one being downsized. Downsizing refers to a company's decision to reduce its workforce for reasons other than poor performance, criminal conduct, or unethical behavior on the part of those being let go. The word is a euphemism meant to soften the blow as much for the company as it is for the soon-to-be eliminated. There is nothing wrong with making a difficult task easier to bear. In fact, there are good ethical reasons for doing so, as we'll soon see. Still, there is no getting around the fact that downsizing is a type of layoff, with all that this implies. The ethical manager will keep in mind what is really going when he or she is charged with letting good people go.

Sales at U.S. retailers unexpectedly dropped in August and prices at the wholesale level fell for the first time this year as Americans cut spending in the face of job losses and record foreclosures. The 0.3 percent decline in purchases followed a 0.5 percent drop in July, the Commerce Department said today in Washington. Excluding automobiles, purchases were down 0.7 percent, the most this year.

"Best Global Brands" (In Depth, Sept. 29) proclaims several brands "gutsy" because they're keeping their marketing budgets steady as a percentage of sales. That's not gutsy; that's easy. What about using tactics that cost less than prime-time TV to micro-target high-priority consumers? That's the activity you should celebrate: The marketplace will. Michael DresnerPeppercom StrategicCommunicationsNEW YORK

Mwana Africa Plc, Central African Mining & Exploration Co. Plc and other companies with mining interests in Zimbabwe rose after President Robert Mugabe and opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai agreed to share power. Mwana, which controls nickel mines in the country, rose as much as 5 pence, or 20 percent, to 30.5 pence in London and traded at 28.75 pence at 8:11 a.m. local time. Central African, which plans to develop platinum mines in the country, jumped as much as 2.25 pence, or 10 percent, to 24.25 pence.

Fidelity Investments is close to a settlement with New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo to buy back $300 million in auction-rate securities, according to a person familiar with the negotiations. Fidelity, the world's largest mutual fund manager, would be the first retail broker to settle with Cuomo's office. Citigroup Inc., UBS AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and five other underwriters settled claims in recent weeks stemming from a nationwide probe of firms that allegedly marketed the securities as safe as cash alternatives when they're not.

Liverpool midfielder Steven Gerrard and striker Fernando Torres were cleared to play in tomorrow's Premier League match against Manchester United. Gerrard recently underwent groin surgery and Torres was sidelined by a torn hamstring. Both completed a light training session today, manager Rafael Benitez said.

Alan Carpenter's leadership of Western Australia's Labor Party was declared safe after he met colleagues today for the first time since an election left his party on the brink of losing office after seven years in power. Premier Carpenter has unanimous support from the party, Attorney General Jim McGinty said today after cabinet ministers met to discuss strategy, according to the Web site of the West Australian, the state's top-selling newspaper.

NexMed Inc., whose topical treatment for erectile dysfunction was rejected by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in July, aims to have the drug approved in 13 months, Chief Executive Officer Vivian Liu said. NexMed feels ``very strongly'' that the results of additional studies can clear up safety questions raised when high doses of the drug caused cancer in mice, Liu said in an interview from the company's headquarters in East Windsor, New Jersey. Two subsequent two-year studies in mice and rats and more than 100 other animal studies found no cancer, the company said.

Brazilian stocks rose to the highest in a week as commodity prices gained and strategists at Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said equities are cheap after a 20 percent decline this year. Petrobras SA and Cia. Vale do Rio Doce, the two biggest stocks in the Bovespa, gained after Morgan Stanley said investors should buy materials and energy producers. BM&FBovespa SA Bolsa de Valores Mercadorias e Futuros, Latin America's biggest exchange, rose the most in two weeks after Deutsche Bank AG said its partnership with the CME Group Inc. will boost trading. Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA jumped the most in the Bovespa index on the prospect the airline may return to profit next year.

The following is a list of companies whose shares may have unusual price changes in U.K. and Irish markets today. Stock symbols are in parentheses and prices are from the last market close. The benchmark FTSE 100 Index fell 47.80, or 0.9 percent, to 5,318.40. The FTSE All-Share Index dropped 0.9 percent and Ireland's ISEQ Index retreated 2 percent.

Usain Bolt, who swept the sprint titles at last month's Beijing Olympics in world-record time, will train with Spanish soccer champion Real Madrid. The 22-year-old Jamaican, who claimed gold medals and world records in the 100 meters, 200 meters and 400-meter relay in Beijing, said Real had invited him to train with players including Raul Gonzalez and Ruud Van Nistelrooy.

Micron Technology Inc. Chief Executive Officer Steve Appleton may be about to succeed in his decade-long quest to end the boom-and-bust cycles bedeviling the memory-chip industry. A joint venture with Nanya Technology Corp. and speculation that Micron may acquire Qimonda AG are signs Appleton, 48, is determined to get hold of enough production to prevent future gluts. Falling prices and a second year of industry sales declines are forcing competitors to band together and making potential acquisitions more affordable.

As gas prices have soared, more commuters have made the switch to carpooling, and they're turning to a host of free Web-based services—from government-sponsored transit programs to iPhone apps and widgets—to meet their needs. But the plethora of options can be a mixed blessing: More options mean your perfect carpool match is more likely to be signed up with a different service. That's not only a problem for you, the commuter, but also for the companies hoping to capture your business; to succeed, ride-match sites have to be able to guarantee that they can get riders where they want to go, when they want to go there. So a growing number of ride-share startups are following in the footsteps of other Web 2.0 applications providers by targeting the enterprise market. Catering to businesses gives Carpool 2.0 startups both a captive pool of riders with a shared destination (and often similar schedules) and corporate execs who are increasingly willing to pay for customized services, like hosted Web sites and mobile apps.

Russia's Micex Index climbed the most in more than 2 years as traders speculated a wave of selling by institutional investors due to margin calls and fund redemptions is finished. OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, Russia's biggest mining company, rose for the first time in nine days.

Steven Conte's debut novel ``The Zookeeper's War'' beat works by some of Australia's most noted writers to claim the nation's inaugural Prime Minister's Literary Award for Fiction and a check for A$100,000 ($80,000). The novel, set in 1943, centers on an Australian woman and her German husband struggling to save the animals of Berlin's zoo as the city crumbles in the dying days of World War II. The non-fiction prize, also worth A$100,000, was won by Philip Jones for ``Ochre and Rust,'' which uses aboriginal artifacts to tell the tale of the first encounters between Australia's original inhabitants and white settlers.

Blacks and Latinos start businesses at a lower rate than whites and Asians, and their companies are less likely to be profitable, less likely to hire employees, and more likely to close. A new book, Race and Entrepreneurial Success, explores the reasons behind those gaps. Authors Robert Fairlie and Alicia Robb, researchers at the University of California at Santa Cruz, find that differences in startup capital, education, and experience working in other businesses explain the racial disparity in business success. Blacks, for example, have less than 10% the median personal wealth of whites and Asians, which limits the capital available to invest in businesses. (More data from the book are available here.) Fairlie and Robb base their conclusions on extensive research from the past quarter-century of data on business ownership, including access to Census Bureau surveys not publicly available.

Marketing is an investment, not an expense. You've heard that before, of course. But it's one thing to invest in marketing when times are good, and quite another to continue spending at a steady clip when things are getting tight. Before you cut your budget or rush headlong into an all-new approach, consider brand accretion. What?

Crude rose from a five-month low as Hurricane Ike headed toward the Texas coast, home to 23 percent of U.S. refining capacity, shutting almost all Gulf of Mexico oil production as it passes. About 19 percent of U.S. processing capacity is being shut before Ike makes landfall today. More than a quarter of U.S. oil production is based in the Gulf Coast region and evacuations have halted 97 percent of local crude output and 93 percent of natural gas production, the Minerals Management Service said yesterday.

Nissan Motor Co., adjusting to slowing U.S. auto demand, said the response from Tennessee factory workers to a buyout program is favorable as the deadline to accept the voluntary departure packages arrives. The Tokyo-based carmaker on July 30 said it would offer payments of as much as $125,000 to workers at its Smyrna and Decherd, Tennessee, plants, aiming to eliminate 1,200 jobs by

For a guy whose astute counsel helped to make so many CEOs rich, Peter Drucker had an intense loathing of exorbitant executive salaries. He hated high CEO pay on every level: what it said about the individual as a leader, how it undermined the smooth functioning of the organization, and the way it tore at the fabric of society as a whole.

As the strike by 27,000 machinists at Boeing (BA) is poised to move into a second week, labor and management seem as far apart as ever. Estimates for how long the impasse will linger range from about three weeks, which would mark the time when health insurance coverage lapses for the strikers, to until a couple of weeks before Thanksgiving, when prospects for a lean Christmas begin to weigh heavily on both sides. For now, both managers and union officials say, no talks are scheduled. Each is waiting for a call from the other and a federal mediator.

It's looking as though Lehman Brothers (LEH) may not be able to count on the federal government for any help in its hour of need, and that has all of Wall Street shaking. Shares of Lehman sank deeper into penny-stock territory on Friday, Sept. 12, as the beleaguered, 158-year-old firm races to find another bank to buy it in a bid to stave off collapse. On Friday, Lehman's stock fell 13.5%, to $3.57, continuing a death spiral that began on Sept. 8. Now that Wall Street has concluded Lehman CEO Dick Fuld won't be able to pull off his previously announced plan for shoring up (BusinessWeek.com, 10/10/08) the balance sheet, it's become a race against time for Fuld to find a buyer—at any price. The speculation on Wall Street is that Bank of America, Barclays, and a consortium of private equity firms are the most interested suitors.

Warner Music Group's (WMG) Michael Nash spent years trying to save digital-rights-management technology on downloads. Late last year, he helped kill it. "The definition of insanity is when you keep doing the same thing over and over again hoping to get a different result," says Nash, who heads WMG's digital strategy. "We needed to shift our tactics." Nash's move may just save the major labels. Web executives say the January announcement that all four majors would sell DRM-free downloads through Amazon (AMZN) was a long-awaited sign that the industry is finally ready to embrace new digital businesses, rather than trying to squash them (BusinessWeek.com, 9/12/08). Since the announcement, the labels have struck several deals—including a joint venture with MySpace Music (NWS)—that promise to boost the music download market and provide new online revenue sources. "The fact that the labels are willing to sell unprotected MP3s, when 15 months ago they were doing everything not to do it, was a big move," says Hadi Partovi, president of iLike, the leading music service on Facebook. "They took a big risk."

Fund managers have turned more bearish over the prospects for Asia-Pacific ex-Japan equities, according to the latest HSBC survey of global fund managers. The survey shows fund houses are reducing their equities positions and switching to overweight positions in cash and bonds. The quarterly HSBC survey analyses the assets under management (AUM) and the views of 12 fund houses and their global money flows. The net money flow estimates are derived from movements in assets versus index movements in the equivalent class.

Investors and the financial media have concluded that a sale of troubled investment bank Lehman Brothers (LEH) is imminent, with a strong possibility that a deal could be reached over the weekend. According to a Financial Times report, Bank of America (BAC), private equity group J.C. Flowers & Co., and China Investment Corp., the Chinese sovereign wealth fund, are considering a possible joint bid for Lehman. Barclays (BCS) is also considering a separate deal, according to the FT. In the meantime, Lehman's shares continue to suffer, with the stock down another 7% on Sept. 12.

Several of my employees worry about their credit-card balances and other debts. Can I refer them to a financial counselor or help them in some other way? The fears they bring into the workplace are distracting for them and the rest of us. —R.J., Columbus, Ohio
 With the mortgage crisis in full swing, housing prices down, and stock market mutual funds bleeding value, it's not surprising that some of your workers are feeling the pinch.

In two months, the American people will stream to polling stations from Wasilla, Alaska to Cambridge, Massachusetts and choose, arguably, the most powerful man in the world. There will be plenty waiting for the winner of the White House: a stumbling economy, slumping home prices, a Russia returned to its traditional belligerence, Iraq and Afghanistan, and the endless confrontation with Iran and its nuclear program.

By BusinessWeek, Standard & Poor's, and Action Economics staff A batch of U.S. economic reports released on Sept. 12 carried some mixed messages for the U.S. economy: Measures of wholesale inflation dipped in August, and a closely followed reading of consumer sentiment surged in September. But another report painted a different picture of the consumer: Retail sales dropped by a worse-than-expected amount in August. A separate release showed a surge in business inventories in July.

Telling personal stories makes presentations stronger. Politicians have long understood this. They know that forging a connection with an audience on an emotional level is crucial if they want to have any lasting influence. They know personal stories can deliver that emotion. When Democratic Presidential nominee Senator Barack Obama (D-Ill.) took the stage at Denver's Invesco field earlier this September, he told the story of being born to "a young man from Kenya and a young woman from Kansas who weren't well-off but shared a belief that in America their son could achieve whatever he put his mind to." Obama's running mate, Senator Joe Biden (D-Del.), told the story of being raised in Scranton, Pa., by a dad who fell on hard times. We even learned that Biden stuttered as a child. When Alaska Governor Sarah Palin accepted Senator John McCain's (R-Ariz.) offer to be his running mate, she told stories about the struggles and joys she faces as a mom—from her eldest son being deployed to Iraq to raising a child with special needs. McCain brought his audience to tears—and later to their feet—with a descriptive story about the years he spent captive in Vietnam "blessed by misfortune."

It was a spectacular year for Siemens Ltd. (SIEM.BO). For the past couple of years, the Mumbai-listed entity, in which German parent Siemens (SI) holds a 55% stake, capitalized on India's economic boom, building on the growing demand for infrastructure such as airports, power facilities, and ports. India is the fourth-largest operation for Siemens. Only Germany, the U.S., and China are bigger. For the year ending in September, profits rose 66%, to $135 million, on sales of $1.75 billion, up 71%. Exports to markets such as the Middle East rose 32%, to $570 million. That's what hoisted Siemens to the No. 1 slot, up from No. 4, in the Asia BusinessWeek 50, our annual ranking of the top Asian companies. Staying at the top won't be easy, though. Armin Bruck, 44, who took over as managing director in January, has to grapple with tough times. The Indian economy is slowing down, competition is increasing, projects are getting delayed by manpower and material shortages, and Siemens' stock price is shrinking. Big-ticket infrastructure projects have virtually creaked to a halt, as New Delhi has other priorities in an election year. Global engineering heavyweights like Areva and ABB, and domestic players like Larsen & Toubro and the state-run Bharat Heavy Electricals have become more aggressive. And the market meltdown has pushed Siemens Ltd. shares down 70%, to $13, from $44 just a year ago.

You should know there is a problem when www.factcheck.org calls your campaign out for a misleading ad called “factcheck” that purports to use the non-partisan organization’s ad vetting apparatus to say that the other guy’s ads and rhetoric are misleading.
      Huh? I know. It’s hard to follow. Here is the ad: But that’s what happened, of course, when the McCain campaign distorted the findings of factcheck.org to suggest that the Obama campaign had distorted facts about GOP vp candidate Sarah Palin.
      Earlier in the week, I asked the McCain campaign if they recognized factcheck.org as a non-partisan referee of political ad truth-telling, and if the campaign has edited, or would edit ads to comply with what the group found false or out and out lies. The campaign acknowledged receipt of my inquiry and then refused to provide an answer. It is worth noting that earlier in the campaign, John McCain said he was unfamiliar with factcheck.org. I assume he boned up, since he approved the ad this week that cites the organization.

By 2030, 1 billion consumers will live in China's cities. Chinese and global companies are well aware of the huge size and potential of this emerging urban market. But businesses should shift their sights from a panoramic view of the opportunity to a close-up of the dynamics of urbanization. To be successful, they need to keep pace with the rapidly changing managerial strategies that city leaders are employing as their cities expand. China's urbanization is largely a local phenomenon. City mayors are the most powerful movers and shapers of the process. Their effectiveness—or lack of it—should be a key component of companies' strategic planning for the Chinese market. New research by the McKinsey Global Institute (MGI) argues that business has a chance to play a key role as cities mature. Companies can bring not only capital but also an infusion of knowledge and can help guarantee greater efficiency and productivity from major public projects.

Josh Silverman is on the defensive. As the head of eBay's Skype unit, he's happy to talk about his company's more than 330 million users and six straight quarters of profitability. But the topic he has been asked to address more frequently in his six months at the helm is how eBay could have so grossly overestimated Skype's value when in 2005 it paid more than $2.5 billion for the Internet calling service. "There is this perception gap related to eBay and what people thought eBay would do with Skype," Silverman says. The gap is more than just a matter of perception. Executives at eBay (EBAY) bet Skype's cheap and easy-to-use Internet calling tools would help eBay users land more sales. But it turns out many of the small business owners who market their wares on eBay had little time to sit by the phone to take questions, and in October, eBay was forced to concede it overpaid (BusinessWeek.com, 10/1/07), recording expenses of $900 million.

In a small Atlantic Records Group studio in New York, rapper Clifford "T.I." Harris Jr. leans into a silver microphone. "It's the T.I.P. man, the king himself," he says. "Dig this." There's no music on this recording, though, no rhyming lyrics. The Atlanta artist simply talks in his Southern drawl, creating an audio clip that will be posted on his Web site and others across the online universe. The clip and more like it are designed to pull in fans—and generate revenues from advertising on the sites. Meet the record label, version 2.0. After nearly a decade of plunging music sales, the labels are trying to overhaul their traditional business. Instead of just selling recorded music, they want to use music to sell a range of related extras, from online advertising to mobile phones packed with tunes. The new business model puts the Internet at the heart of the industry in an attempt to transform artist Web sites from promotional vehicles into money-making enterprises.

by The Associated Press
 Oil companies along the Texas coast shut down refining and drilling operations as Hurricane Ike swept through the Gulf of Mexico on Friday, Sept. 12. But crude oil on the futures market briefly sank below the psychologically important $100-a-barrel mark for the first time since Apr. 2—showing that investors believe a worsening global economy will continue to drive down demand for some time in the U.S. and elsewhere.

Washington Mutual (WM) shares rise 0.10 to 2.93 after American Banker reports JPMorgan (JPM) is in advanced discussions to buy WM, sources said. WaMu expects its capital ratios at third quarter-end to remain significantly above the levels for well-capitalized institutions and it continues to be confident that it has sufficient liquidity and capital to support operations while it returns to profitability. Provision expected to be about $1.4 billion less than in the second quarter, but nearly 2 times the expected charge-offs. Net interest income is expected to be in line with the second quarter. Lehman Brothers (LEH) shares fall 0.49 to 3.73 as S&P Ratings Services says its ratings on Lehman and all related entities remain on CreditWatch, but revises CreditWatch listing to developing from negative. Separately, Financial Times reports Bank of America (BAC), JC Flowers, and Chinese sovereign wealth fund China Investment Co. are considering a possible joint bid for LEH. Earlier, S&P maintained hold; said it believes a deal could be consummated over weekend. S&P says it would be in favor of possible Bank of America/Lehman combo, only with government backing. Ladenburg Thalmann believes that BAC will be a winning bidder for LEH; it says there is a "natural fit" between the two companies.











































Ryan Babel scored in the 77th minute as Liverpool beat Manchester United 2-1 to end an eight-game winless run against its rival in English soccer's Premier League. Chelsea beat Manchester City 3-1 to stay atop the standings. Liverpool also got an own-goal in the first half at its Anfield stadium, while Carlos Tevez scored in the opening minutes of the game for defending champion United.

Barclays Plc, the U.K.'s third-biggest bank, moved closer to making a bid for Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. as the U.S. government raced to find a solution for the faltering investment bank, two people familiar with the situation said. Senior executives of major financial-services companies arrived at the New York Federal Reserve building in lower Manhattan this morning to discuss a rescue plan, including Citigroup Inc. Chief Executive Officer Vikram Pandit and Robert Wolf, chairman for the Americas at UBS AG. JPMorgan Chase & Co. sent CEO Jamie Dimon, Investment Bank Co-CEO Steven Black and General Counsel Stephen Cutler.

Double-amputee Oscar Pistorius won his second gold medal at the Paralympic Games in Beijing by defending his title in the 200 meters. South Africa's Pistorius, nicknamed ``Blade Runner'' because of his carbon-fiber prosthetic legs, finished in a Paralympic-record time of 21.67 seconds. He added the 200 meters gold medal to the 100 meters title he won four days ago.

Barack Obama may be playing possum. John McCain's campaign is boasting about a surge in fundraising following his pick of running mate Sarah Palin, a swell of cash that his campaign says has eroded the money advantage Obama once enjoyed.

New Zealand rallied to defeat Australia 28-24 in the Tri-Nations rugby decider to clinch its fourth straight southern hemisphere championship. Mils Muliana, Tony Woodcock, Piri Weepu and Dan Carter touched down as the top-ranked All Blacks outscored the Wallabies by four tries to three at Brisbane's Suncorp Stadium. Carter also kicked four conversions for New Zealand, which trailed by three points at the break and 17-7 early in the second half.

Walgreen Co., the largest U.S. pharmacy chain, offered to buy Longs Drug Stores Corp. for $3 billion in an attempt to scuttle CVS Caremark Corp.'s agreement to acquire the California retailer. The $75-a-share cash proposal is $3.50, or 4.9 percent, higher than CVS/Caremark's offer last month to buy Walnut Creek, California-based Longs, Walgreen said in a statement today. Walgreen also said it was willing to pay the $115 million termination fee required to break up the CVS transaction.

Walgreen Co., the largest U.S. pharmacy chain, offered to buy Longs Drug Stores Corp. for $3 billion, challenging CVS Caremark Corp.'s month-old agreement to acquire the California retailer. The $75-a-share cash proposal is $3.50, or 4.9 percent, higher than CVS/Caremark's offer last month to buy Walnut Creek, California-based Longs, Walgreen said in a statement yesterday. Walgreen also said it was willing to pay the $115 million termination fee required to break up the CVS transaction.

U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and New York Federal Reserve Bank President Timothy Geithner urged the heads of Wall Street's biggest firms to find a solution to the plight of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., signaling their reluctance to use government funds to bail out the investment bank, people familiar with the talks said. Talks between the government and the banks continued today, New York Fed spokesman Andrew Williams said. Yesterday's meeting, convened by Geithner, began at 6 p.m. with Kendrick Wilson, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executive whom Paulson tapped last month as an adviser, helping lead discussions. An agreement may be reached as early as tonight, the Wall Street Journal reported today, citing unidentified people with knowledge of the discussions.

Defending champion Russia swept today's singles matches to take a 2-0 lead over Spain in the final of tennis's Fed Cup. World No. 9 Vera Zvonareva, the bronze medalist at last month's Olympics, beat Anabel Medina 6-3, 6-4 to open play in best-of-five series in Madrid. Seventh-ranked Svetlana Kuznetsova then defeated Carla Suarez-Navarro 6-3, 6-1.

What were they thinking? The HTC Touch Diamond from Sprint ($250 after mail-in rebate, with two-year contract) is a richly featured smartphone, thin and light, with a big and gorgeous display. And one feature so bad that it renders the Touch Diamond all but unusable.

With Wall Street in crisis and a recession looming, it follows that marketers would slash budgets—particularly for newer forms of brand promotion such as social network advertising. Not so, says Keith Bobier, Unilever’s senior director of marketing. The company behind such brands as  Axe deodorant  and  I Can’t Believe It’s Not Butter  plans to continue to spend on sharable video ads, games, and other forms of widget advertising that can be spread across sites such as Facebook and MySpace. “We are not pulling in the reigns at all,” says Bobier. “There is nothing experimental about this for us. This is a serious part of our marketing mix.” Web companies are hoping other brands react similarly to the tighter economic times. Firms such as Google and Microsoft have long touted the idea that budget crunched marketers will spend online, even as they cut back on other forms of advertising, thanks to the ability to track performance and easily adjust campaigns. “Near as we can tell, we just offer such great ROI [return on investment] for advertisers that they can directly see and measure, that advertisers in even difficult markets just have great inventive to get as much profitable inventory as they can,” said Google co-founder Sergey Brin in a  call with financial analysts late last year.

Fannie, Freddie, Lehman, Merrill, AIG?… D**n…that’s the only thing I can say. I knew that the global financial system was stressed, but I expected the break to come in China, not here.

As if small businesses needed a reminder, the devastation of Hurricane Ike was fresh evidence that even a moderate hurricane can cause widespread damage. So the question is: How ready are America’s small businesses for such disasters? The answer, unfortunately, is not very ready. According to the Institute for Business and Home Safety, 25% of businesses do not reopen following a major disaster. And according to some surveys, more than 70% of small businesses don’t even have a disaster plan in place.

We’re right across the street from Lehman’s headquarters. I remember when the building was being built (For Morgan Stanley, which decided to move more people out of NYC instead). Right now, the place is a circus. It’s become another Times Square attraction, but this time for the news media and people from other banks, who are stopping by to just wonder at what’s happening.

With Wall Street in crisis and a recession looming, it follows that marketers would slash budgets—particularly for newer forms of brand promotion such as social network advertising. Not so, says Keith Bobier, Unilever’s senior director of marketing. The company behind such brands as  Axe deodorant  and  I Can’t Believe It’s Not Butter  plans to continue to spend on sharable video ads, games, and other forms of widget advertising that can be spread across sites such as Facebook and MySpace. “We are not pulling in the reigns at all,” says Bobier. “There is nothing experimental about this for us. This is a serious part of our marketing mix.” Web companies are hoping other brands react similarly to the tighter economic times. Firms such as Google and Microsoft have long touted the idea that budget crunched marketers will spend online, even as they cut back on other forms of advertising, thanks to the ability to track performance and easily adjust campaigns. “Near as we can tell, we just offer such great ROI [return on investment] for advertisers that they can directly see and measure, that advertisers in even difficult markets just have great inventive to get as much profitable inventory as they can,” said Google co-founder Sergey Brin in a  call with financial analysts late last year.

Just another manic Monday? No quite. Lehman Brothers is bankrupt. Merrill Lynch is being swallowed by Bank of America. Bear Stearns is already dead. Other major financial institutions such as insurer AIG are teetering on the brink. 
      What does the tarnishing of these storied names mean for the rest of us? No doubt there are some people out there who are probably happy all of these overpaid financial wizards are finally getting their comeuppance. Like them or not though, Lehman, Bear Stearns and Merrill Lynch and other investment banks provided the capital so that millions of Americans could buy homes, cars and boats and just about anything with a credit card. That was the miracle of securitization.
      Now that this credit spigot is running dry, what will it do to the national economy? Ed Leamer, a respected economist with UCLA’s Anderson School of Management, says the immediate impact of these big investment bank failures is not as powerful as one would think. The consumer has already cut way back in spending, taking as much as a full percentage point off of GDP growth. “That’s behind us,” Leamer says. Next will likely come a slow down in business spending. Since fewer people are buying cars and washing machines the companies that make them will continue cutting back. The fortunate think is that these two pillars of the economy, consumers and businesses, didn’t go south at the same time. “We’ve been in a zero growth economy for some time,” Leamer says.
      The bad news is there is no new economic engine like the dotcom boom or housing on the horizon. But continued growth in population, healthcare and schools keeps the economic train rolling along.
      There’s a psychological blow to hearing that such storied institutions have been hobbled. But a far greater impediment to consumer confidence has been soaring gasoline prices, Leamer figures. “They’re reminded of that every time they fill up the tank,” he says. And with oil down below $100 today, there is a least some bit of good economic news out there.

Chevrolet chief Ed Peper only says that the Chevy Cruze, when it hits the market in mid 2010, will post fuel economy “North of 40 mpg.” That’s thanks to a 1.4 liter, direct injected turbo-charged engine that will be standard equipment. It’s bigger than a Ford Focus or Toyota Corolla, says Peper, yet gets better fuel economy. That was a unique trick, but the small displacement and direct injection seems to be the key. What I think will make this model take off is the ability to scream the 42mpg headline in ads.

Barclay Pulls Out of Lehman Talks

Here’s an item from associate editor Mara Derhovanesian
 In a move to bolster morale and head off negative sentiment in the markets, Citigroup CEO Vikram Pandit shot off an email with words of assurance to some 300,000 of Citi’s employees worldwide. Pandit, who was involved in top-level meetings over the weekend with regulators and rival bank heads, distributed the missive to assure the company’s workers of the bank’s stability during unprecedented turmoil on Wall Street as two financial behemoths—Merrill Lynch and Lehman Brothers—saw their long histories come to a rapid end.

If you are a regular C corporation, owners can benefit from receiving tax-free medical expenses paid through the company. However, if you’re a sole proprietor, partnership, or an S corporation, these same expenses aren’t normally deductible. Still, there is a way you may be able to get tax-free medical expenses through the business by setting up a medical reimbursement plan. Under this plan, you can deduct 100% of your medical insurance premiums and out-of-pocket costs as a business expense. While not every business qualifies, if you meet the following criteria you might be able to take a bite out of your tax bill. • You must be married.
      • Your spouse must be an employee of the business. Under the plan, the business provides the benefit of reimbursing medical expenses of employees. As your spouse is an employee, he or she is eligible for this benefit.
      • If you provide the benefit to your spouse, you must also provide it to other qualified employees. You can specify that only permanent full-time employees who have worked for at least one year qualify. If you have a couple of part-time or seasonal employees and only your spouse is permanent full-time, guess who is the one-and-only employee to qualify for the benefit?
      • The plan must be in writing.

About 18 months ago, hard drive maker Seagate tried to make a big push to sell more external storage to consumers by introducing its FreeAgent line. They flopped. People hated the software, couldn’t figure out why they needed to back up digital memories and balked at the high prices.
      Now the company is back with a revamped lineup that takes a few lessons from that first attempt with a second generation of FreeAgent drives. 
      The biggest improvement? Seagate has finally seen the light and realized it can capture an increasingly influential segment of the  market: Apple fans. For the first time it is offering native support for MacBooks and iMac models. They’re compatible with Apple’s Time Machine backup software, making it a snap to back up files. 
      I’ve been testing the new 1 TB desktop drive for the past week, and it works like a charm. Seagate took its focus group testing to heart and lets you hook the FreeAgent up to a Firewire 400 or 800 port, saving those precious USB connectors on the Mac for other things. My 24-inch iMac immediately recognized the drive and asks if you want to use it for Time Machine. 
      The desktop drives even fit into the Apple aesthetic, with a silver casing and white accents (dumped the brown casing with amber accent lights). And it’s quite a bit cheaper than Apple’s comparable 1 TB Time Capsule drive, at less than $300 compared to $499.
      The FreeAgent Go laptop models come in four colors for PC users—silver, black, red, and blue—and only silver for Mac users (though the Mac users get a nifty dock included their purchase, while pc users must purchase it as a add-on).
      Seagate also says it has improved its pc Seagate Manager software, which received the thumbs down from users in its earlier incarnation. The Seagate drives also sport better power efficiency, the option to encrypt stored data and come with hefty five-year limited warranties. The drives are expected on store shelves by October.
      As for convincing consumers that they actually should back up their photos, music and other important files, the company plans to launch a long-awaited print, online and television ad campaign in coming weeks to boost awareness and show how simple it is to use their products.

A Boeing Co. 737-500 jet flown by OAO Aeroflot's Aeroflot Nord unit crashed in the central Russian city of Perm, killing all 88 passengers and crew. Flight 821, en route from Moscow's Sheremetyevo Airport, crashed during its descent just after 3 a.m. Moscow time, Aeroflot said in a statement. The 16-year-old plane lost radio contact at an altitude of 1,100 meters (3,600 feet) and was completely destroyed in the crash along a passenger railroad.

The stock market is crashing, housing prices are plummeting and the economy is poised for a severe downturn so I’m reminded of the criticism I heard at the World Economic Forum in Davos in January that innovation is responsible for this mess. A European banker came up to me and and said, “isn’t innovation at the root of all our problems?” “All those new financial instruments failed, right?” He’s right. So what went wrong? I’ve talked to a lot of folks and  the answer lies in the innovation process that took place on Wall Street. Hundreds of hugely complex products based on hugely complex mathematic financial models were created and sold around the world—without first being tested out. There was little or no real-world  iterative process. Commercial ankers, hedge fund managers and investment bankers didn’t know what would work or not work in a troubled economic environment, such as one where housing prices fell sharply. In fact, the complex financial instruments were supposed to spread and reduce risk. In the end, they did the opposite. In short, the innovation process was flawed. New inventions were not stress-tested in a real enviroment.

The following companies may have unusual price changes in Italian trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses and share prices are from the previous close. Italy's S&P/MIB Index rose 430, or 1.5 percent, to 28,372 in Milan.

Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. moved closer to filing for bankruptcy after Barclays Plc and Bank of America Corp. abandoned talks to buy the U.S. securities firm and Wall Street prepared for its possible liquidation. Barclays, which had emerged as a leading candidate to acquire Lehman, pulled out first, contending it couldn't obtain guarantees from the government or other Wall Street firms to protect against potential losses on Lehman's assets. Bank of America withdrew about three hours later, according to a person with knowledge of the talks. Banks and brokers began consolidating trades in which Lehman is involved to minimize the impact of a possible bankruptcy filing tonight.

We’ve heard the domestic auto makers tell us that they’re taking square aim at Japanese cars before. Often to no avail. This time, General Motors’ Chevrolet division is trying to reestablish itself in the compact market with the new Chevrolet Cruze, which goes on sale in Europe in March of next year and in the U.S. in April 2010. The company showed the car to the media in Detroit at a media event marketing its 100th anniversary. Styling is subjective. But the Cruze is tasteful enough and certainly looks more modern than the very ‘90s-looking Cobalt that it will replace. It bears a slight resemblance to the Honda Accord family sedan. GM showed photos of the interior, which has a high-tech look to it. Ed Welburn, the company’s vice president of design, says the car’s interior will use some rich new materials. He said that it will be first rate. Welburn is pictured above with the car.

Walking to work each day from the subway station to my office, I pass the headquarters of Lehman Brothers. Usually, there are tourists outside, taking home videos of the eye-catching facade, which is covered with giant video screens showing enormous images of iconic American sights like the Golden Gate bridge. Today, after Lehman filed for bankruptcy, the tourists were replaced with news reporters and major-TV-media cameras and trucks with humungous satellite dishes on top. Today, employees of Lehman Brothers are shuffling in and out of the building as if celebrities entering and exiting a nightclub, avoiding swarms of paparazzi. And with Merrill sold to Bank of America, and Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley gearing up to provide what they hope is relatively good(ish) news in their earnings reports tomorrow, isn’t it time we think about how to define and execute innovation in investment banking?

Here’s a round up of questions posed to top money managers, financial advisers, and economists about the market meltdown on Monday:
      
      Mohamed El-Erian, co-CEO, Pimco, and author of When Markets Collide: Investment Strategies for the Age of Global Economic Change  Q. Back in May you said we were well into a major dislocation. Can the financial system survive more shocks?

I may be in the minority, but I think the new Microsoft ads featuring company founder Bill Gates and comedian Jerry Seinfeld created by are hitting the right chords. The first ad, which showed Seinfeld coming across Gates shopping at a discount shoe store, left many, including me, scratching heads about where this campaign is going.

Business school applicants are always looking for advice and strategies to write winning essays, perform well on the interview, and get into their dream business school. Paul Bodine, author and admissions consultant, recently fielded questions from BusinessWeek reporter Francesca Di Meglio and the public at a live chat event about applications and getting accepted to top MBA programs. Here is an edited transcript of the chat with information on everything from the importance of campus visits to deciding how to handle the failure essay properly on an application: PaulBodine2008: Starbot asked about applicants with weak postcollege extracurriculars getting into top-five business schools. [The question was accidentally deleted from the system.] Business schools understand that IB and consulting folks, for example, have to work ungodly hours, but poor post-college extracurriculars is still a weakness that you need to compensate for, especially at the top schools. If you have specific reasons, like a family crisis, then you should discuss that in an optional essay. Most of my clients who get into the top schools have strong undergraduate as well as strong postgraduate [extracurriculars].

Western Australia's uranium-related companies are set for a boost after the Liberal Party, which favors ending a ban on mining the nuclear fuel, yesterday won the backing of the Nationals to form government. Liberal leader Colin Barnett will take over from Labor's Alan Carpenter as the state's new premier, ending a week of political gridlock after a Sept. 6 poll failed to produce a clear winner. Nationals' leader Brendon Grylls said yesterday his party would form a coalition government with the Liberals after using his party's four seats as a bargaining chip for plans to divert more mining royalties to local communities.

Greg Biffle conserved fuel and pulled away from defending Nascar champion Jimmie Johnson in the closing laps of the Sylvania 300 at New Hampshire Motor Speedway to claim his first win in 33 races in the top Sprint Cup Series. Carl Edwards, the third-place finisher today, leads the season championship, the Chase for the Sprint Cup, after the opening round of Nascar's 10-race playoff. Johnson is tied for first in points but trails Edwards, who has more wins this season. Biffle is third in the championship.

For some reason, many readers who are interested in my blog contact me “off-line.” One such reader was intrigued with my analysis of the character structure of serial entrepreneurs and called me to raise the following concern: Do you think the new crop of Web 2.0 entrepreneurs –like Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook, Chris DeWolfe of MySpace, and Google’s founders Brin & Page— will exhibit the same personality traits as established entrepreneurs? It seems to me that the kids are representative of a kinder & gentler generation of business-builders. Do you agree?

Merrill Lynch & Co. is in merger talks with Bank of America Corp. after shares of the third-biggest U.S. securities firm fell by more than 35 percent last week and smaller rival Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. neared bankruptcy, people with knowledge of the negotiations said. Discussions about a potential transaction were proceeding after Bank of America, the biggest U.S. consumer bank, and Barclays Plc, the U.K.'s third-largest lender, abandoned talks to buy Lehman earlier today.

Everton beat Stoke City 3-2 today to record its second away win in English soccer's Premier League this season and climb to 10th in the standings. Tim Cahill headed in Everton's winning goal in the 76th minute at the Britannia Stadium after Stoke had rallied from two goals down to tie the match.

A World War II Spitfire fighter, one of fewer than 60 still flying worldwide, sold for NZ$2.8 million ($1.9 million) at an auction in Nelson, New Zealand today. The aircraft, a 1945 Mk. XVI variant of the fighter made famous during the Battle of Britain, was bought by North China Shipping Holdings Co. Chairman Yan-Ming Gao at the sale at Nelson's museum of Wearable Art & Classic Cars. He plans to donate the fighter to the China Aviation Museum in Beijing.

New Delhi—A day after five controlled explosions ripped through busy markets and a commercial district in India's capital, killing at least 23 people, Indian officials were engaged in a frenzied hunt for clues that, so far, has been fruitless. But even as police detained as many as 18 suspects and questioned their one credible witness, a 12-year-old balloon seller, it became clear that in choosing their targets, the perpetrators repeated a now-familiar pattern. Instead of attacking the familiar symbols of the Indian state, they mostly selected locations that symbolized India's newfound affluence and economic might.

Wall Street's Perfect Storm

The Coen brothers comedy ``Burn After Reading'' opened as the top film in U.S. and Canadian theaters this weekend, taking in $19.4 million for NBC Universal. The movie edged out three other new releases. Tyler Perry's ``The Family That Preys'' was second with $18 million, box-office tracker Media By Numbers LLC said today in an e-mailed statement. ``Righteous Kill,'' starring Robert De Niro and Al Pacino, was third with $16.5 million, and ``The Women'' was fourth with $10.1 million.

As crude oil prices jumped over the past two years, airlines and other fuel-dependent companies turned to surcharges as a way to cushion their balance sheets from higher costs. Now, however, crude oil is in the midst of a retreat, dropping briefly below $100 per barrel on Sept. 12. In the past two months, crude has declined by nearly one-third since topping $147 per barrel. In a Sept. 12 client note, Credit Suisse (CS) analyst Daniel McKenzie cited crude's "collapse" as one reason he's bullish on the airline industry's deeply discounted stocks. Lower crude oil prices mean airlines will also drop fuel surcharges, right? Not quite. Jet fuel is still running 40% to 50% higher than a year ago—and it's not clear if the price relief will last. "At the moment, airlines are in balance-sheet repair mode, and it is not likely we will see any fuel or base-airfare rollbacks until they recoup some of the major losses of the past year," air fare watcher Rick Seaney of travel site Farecompare.com said in an e-mail. He predicts crude would need to drop by another $20 a barrel or so before airlines begin rolling back fuel fees.

With financial firms tumbling and the stock-market gyrating, it’s sometimes easy to forget that, behind the turmoil, much of the mess can be traced back to real houses — houses in foreclosure, houses that aren’t selling, houses that their owners can no longer afford. A sounder housing market could go a long way toward reassuring Wall Street and putting the economy back on track. But when is that likely to happen? Well, to hear Steve Preston, secretary of Housing and Urban Development, tell it this morning, patience remains a virtue.

John Thain may have struck a deal to sell Merrill Lynch to Bank of America at just the right time, and for a whopping 70% premium to boot. That’s because the recent rating downgrade of American International Group may force Merrill to take another write-down on what’s left of its rotting pile of subprime mortgage-backed collateralized debt obligations. Even after selling off some $30.6 billion in ailing CDOs to private equity firm Lone Star Funds in August at a steep discount, Merrill still has $19.9 billion in mortgage-backed CDOs in its portfolio. Merrill has marked down the value of those CDOs to $8.8 billion—a more than 50% haircut. In a recent regulatory filing, Merrill said it was adequately protected against suffering any sizeable losses on those remaining CDOs because it had purchased $6 billion worth of insurance, or credit default swaps, from “highly-rated non-monoline counterparties.’’ It’s widely believed that the bulk of that insurance was purchased from AIG, which was a prime seller of credit default swaps on CDOs up until the beginning of 2006.

Aaron Ricadela writes today about how tech stocks are getting roiled by the dollar’s rally and tighter IT budgets. A meaty followup on my blog post yesterday.

There is widespread consensus that the cheapest, fastest and easiest way to reduce dependence on fossil fuels (and greenhouse gas emissions) is energy efficiency. Yet another report, this time from the American Physical Society, explains this all in detail, showing how gasoline use in cars could be easily cut in half, and how all of America’s buildings in 2030 could get by on the same amount of energy buildings use today. “Most of the things we recommend have negative costs,” says study chair Burton Richter, Nobel Laureate and former director of the Stanford Linear Accelerator. One thing the report highlights, however, is the importance of standards and regulations, from appliance efficiency standards to building codes that require higher efficiencies. These standards have to be carefully designed. One of tantalizing details of the report (in the building section) is how one of the touted rating systems used today for buildings (called LEED certification) doesn’t make them as green as most people believe.

I’m back in the office with my suitcase packed. I’m off to Pittsburgh today (after a talk at Google) and then on to Washington, Boston, Portland, Seattle, and SF. If any of you would like to meet up along the trail, please check out the calendar at TheNumerati.net Meantime, I was happy to see a review of the book in yesterday’s Wall Street Journal. (Too bad that it came on a day that the paper was delivering such devastating financial news.)

With Monday’s dramatic global sell-off in the financial markets, you’re probably already aware that the credit crunch will only get worse. You’re also probably thinking the crisis isn’t over yet. But if you run your own business, what else is top of mind for you these days? How are you dealing with the other effects of the shaky economy? What’s gnawing at the pit of your stomach? What’s keeping you up at night? Sound off in the comments section below.

As voters scramble to understand the financial crisis and what it means for them, both the Obama and McCain campaigns have jumped on the issue. Each hopes to use the crisis to show voters he would be better able to address the deepening problems hitting the financial sector and the economy. Here’s a good look at what they’re saying on the trail. In an interview with Bloomberg, Obama also called on Tuesday morning  for closer scrutiny on the credit ratings agencies. That’s likely a preview of what he’ll be saying in a speech in Colorada later this morning; his campaign has announced he will talk about his “Plan to Revamp Regulatory Framework, Push Back Against Special Interests and Grow the American Economy” at 9:30 local time.

Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.'s International Europe unit will be wound up by administrator PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, a process that may take as long as six years, the accounting firm said. ``Lehman Brothers, the principal U.K. trading company in the Lehman group, was placed in administration earlier this morning, together with three other group companies,'' New York-based PwC said in a statement today. ``The U.K. trading operation found itself unable to meet its obligations when the flow of funds dried up last night.''

In a letter to the Federal Communications Commission dated Sept. 12, Chris Libertelli of Web-calling service Skype reported that he believes that U.S. wireless carriers have had a change of heart about opening up their networks to applications. Remember, in the past year, several carriers including Verizon Wireless have committed to opening up their networks to all apps and devices. Well, Skype argues that carriers are still exercising too much control over which apps and devices get a green light. “Despite the carriers’ assurances, when lip service to the goals of open networks is translated into their terms of service, they continue to require their subscribers to limit the applications and devices that can be used on their networks,” according to the filing, in which Skype is asking for federal regulation to ensure industry-wide compliance with open policies.

Italy's S&P/MIB Index fell for a third day, losing 128, or 4.5 percent, to 27,088. Futures expiring in September dropped 128, or 4.5 percent, to 27,085. The following were among the most active stocks on the Italian market today. Share symbols are in parentheses.

GM vice president, research and development and strategic planning: When asked how the recent downturn in oil and gasoline prices will effect consumer interest in Volt and other alternative propulsion vehicles: “It wakes me up at night”. Chris Paine, independent film maker who produced “Who Killed The Electric Car”: When asked if he thought consumers in America will really buy in to alternative vehicles like the Chevy Volt on a big enough scale: “When you get involved in how much better for the enviromment and society it is, and how much better for our pocketbooks, it starts to become an argument in your head like the one about renting versus owning. People will rapidly come to appreciate owning their own energy solution.”

Michelin & Cie., the world's second-largest tiremaker, led automotive stocks lower after competitor Continental AG cut profit forecasts, citing a worsening economy. Michelin fell 2.54 euros, or 5.1 percent, to 47.50 euros, its biggest decline since Aug. 13. The stock has dropped 39 percent this year, paring the company's market value to

Plus: What the Pros Are Telling (Nervous) Investors

The following companies may have unusual price changes in Canadian trading today. Stock symbols are in parentheses and share prices are based on bids already submitted on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The Standard & Poor's/TSX Composite Index rose 1.2 percent to 12,769.58 in Toronto on Sept. 12.

The New York Mets bullpen blew a late-inning lead for the second day in losing to Atlanta and had their division advantage over Philadelphia cut to one game as the Phillies swept a double-header against Milwaukee. The Braves rallied for a 7-4 win over the Mets by scoring five runs in the ninth inning. Greg Norton had a pinch-hit, three-run home run off Luis Ayala that made it 5-4 and Atlanta added two more runs in the inning to take two of three games from the National League East-leading Mets in their weekend series at Shea Stadium.

Ahmednagar Forging Ltd., an Indian maker of automobile parts, declined the most in almost three weeks in Mumbai trading after more than 7.5 percent of its equity changed hands in two transactions. The company, based in Pune, Maharashtra, fell 3.3 percent, the most since Aug. 28, to 84.65 rupees at the close. The trading volume was almost 38 times the six-month daily average.

Ireland's Finance Minister Brian Lenihan comments on the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the Irish banking system. He made the remarks to reporters in Galway in western Ireland, where he is attending a conference of his ruling Fianna Fail party.

AstraZeneca Plc and Targacept Inc.'s experimental Alzheimer's disease drug failed to improve symptoms more than a placebo in a study, the companies said. Patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease who got the drug AZD3480 fared no better on a cognitive test than those given a placebo or Pfizer Inc.'s Aricept, the current standard of care, the companies' said in a statement. While patients on both drugs improved, those on the placebo also did better than expected in the 12-week test, making comparisons difficult.

Brazilian stocks plunged more than 7 percent, the steepest decline since September 2001, as prospects for a global economic slowdown dragged down oil and mining companies and sent Latin America's biggest securities exchange to a record drop. Banco do Brasil SA led banks to the biggest fall in six years as the bankruptcy of Lehman, once the fourth-largest U.S. investment bank, fueled speculation that turmoil in the credit markets will deepen. Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Brazil's state-controlled oil company, slid the most since 2002 as the price of crude dropped $5 a barrel. Cia. Vale do Rio Doce paced a drop for raw-material producers as industrial metals plunged.

Here’s a step-by-step approach to help you decide which program can best serve your business accounting needs: 1. Determine and create a list of the specific types of accounting functions you want to perform. At a minimum, the software should handle cash disbursement and cash receipts, post all charges to the profit-and-loss statement automatically, and offer a complete reporting package. Reports should include a detailed general ledger, balance sheet, income statement (profit and loss), and cash-flow statement, as well as specific function reports for payroll and job costing.

Thailand's SET Index fell 8.93, or 1.4 percent, to 645.41 at the lunch break, headed for its lowest close since Jan. 11, 2007. More than three shares dropped for each that climbed.

Swings in emerging-market currencies may foreshadow further losses for traders already suffering from the broadest declines this decade. Volatility in options covering currencies from the Brazilian real to the South Korean won is rising at a faster rate than those for the euro and pound, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. Rising volatility was an element of past financial market upheavals, including the global slump in stock markets from 2000 through 2002 after the technology bubble burst.

Turkey received seven bids for two electricity-distribution grids the government is selling to boost investment in the country's energy business. Turkey's Alarko Holding AS, Askale Cimento, Cengiz Insaat, Kiler Group and a joint venture between Barmek Holding and Anel Elektrik were the five bidders for the Meram grid that serves the central city of Konya and nearby provinces, the state asset sales agency said. Askale and Kiler also bid for the Aras grid located in the northeast province of Erzurum.

The following is a list of companies whose shares may have unusual price changes in U.K. and Irish markets today. Stock symbols are in parentheses and prices are from the last market close. The benchmark FTSE 100 Index rose 98.30, or 1.9 percent, to 5,416.70. The FTSE All-Share Index advanced 1.7 percent, and Ireland's ISEQ Index climbed 0.8 percent.

Canadian stocks fell the most in almost eight months as Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.'s failure dragged down financial companies and declines in oil and metals dimmed the profit outlook for commodity producers. Suncor Energy Inc. led resource producers lower as crude oil closed below $100 a barrel for the first time in six months. Brookfield Properties Inc., the owner of Manhattan's World Financial Center, fell the most in 15 years, pacing losses for financial shares.

O.J. Simpson, the ex-Buffalo Bills football player acquitted of murdering his wife 13 years ago, vowed to retake mementoes sold to two sports memorabilia collectors before he robbed them at gunpoint, prosecutors said. Simpson and five others allegedly robbed Bruce Fromong and Alfred Beardsley at the Palace Station hotel casino in Las Vegas last September. Simpson took items including footballs autographed by himself, according to police reports. ``I gotta be at my intimidating best,'' Simpson said in a recording made prior to the alleged crime, played for the jury today by Clark County Chief Deputy District Attorney Christopher Owens in opening arguments. ``We gonna get it all back,'' Simpson said in another recording. Simpson, 61, and co-defendant Clarence Stewart, face 11 felony counts and one gross misdemeanor charge, including kidnapping and robbery with the use of a deadly weapon. Simpson said he had only been recovering personal items stolen from him and denied there were guns in the hotel room. Simpson was the prime suspect in the 1994 murders of his ex-wife Nicole Brown Simpson and her friend Ron Goldman. Simpson was acquitted of murder after a Los Angeles state court trial in 1995. He was subsequently found liable for the deaths in a 1997 lawsuit and ordered to pay damages to the victims' families totaling $33.5 million. Simpson isn't guilty of committing a crime because he never had intent, his lawyer, Yale Galanter, said today. Simpson took ``personal items,'' not sports memorabilia, Galanter said. ``Pictures of his deceased mom, pictures of his deceased dad, pictures of him and his children. Things that were missing for years and years and years.'' Simpson had dispersed various properties of his to friends so as to avoid having it confiscated by police and then given to the Goldmans to satisfy their damages award, Owens told the jury and Judge Jackie Glass. One of those friends was Mike Gilbert, who sold the memorabilia to Beardsley and Fromong. The two were hoping to make $50,000 to $100,000 by selling it, Owens said. Simpson's other codefendants, Charles Ehrlich, Michael McClinton, Charles Howard Cashmore and Walter Alexander, have pleaded guilty to robbery charges and may testify against him, according to court papers. Owens showed the jury videos of Simpson and the others entering the hotel room at the Palace Station and leaving six minutes later with boxes. Ehrlich, McClinton, Cashmore and Alexander are ``hustlers'' who ``have said they would sell their testimony, slant the truth to get paid,'' Galanter told the jury. Prior to the alleged robbery, the man who set up the meeting between Simpson and the memorabilia dealers, Thomas Riccio, contacted the Federal Bureau of Investigation to ask for help recovering Simpson's property, Galanter said. ``How many people who are going to commit a crime give the FBI a heads up before it occurs?'' Galanter said. ``They begged for help and the door was slammed.'' Riccio, who tape-recorded the alleged robbery, then sold the tape for ``north of $100,000'' to celebrity gossip Web site TMZ.com before handing it over to police, Galanter said. ``This entire event is basically recorded in one way or another,'' he told the jury. ``It's not going to be a lot of he said, she said -- it's more about what's behind the words, what's the intent.'' Fromong, one of the alleged victims, testified today that he had arranged to meet with Riccio, who had told him he had buyers interested in the merchandise. At Riccio's hotel room at the Palace Station, Simpson showed up with five men, at least two with guns. They stole photographs that Simpson signed for him, signed collectors' item footballs used in games, various other memorabilia and his new mobile phone, Fromong said, holding up some of the items to show jurors. They took everything except for two baseball bats, Fromong testified. Other items, including signed limited-edition baseballs and photographs, haven't been recovered, he said. Fromong called Simpson his ``best friend'' and said the former football star called Fromong's mother on her birthday to sing ``Happy Birthday'' to her. He said he was ``hurt'' by Simpson's crime and cried briefly on the stand. At least 13 of the items were ``heirlooms,'' that should be returned to Simpson's family, Fromong said he admitted in a television interview while recovering from surgery after a heart attack. After the alleged robbery, Fromong testified he went out to his pickup truck to get his gun, because ``he wanted to get his stuff back.'' ``I was mad, I was angry, I was hurt, and I had just lost $80,000 of my own merchandise,'' Fromong said. Simpson, dressed in a beige suit with a striped tie, shook his head and repeatedly raised his eyebrows while the charges were read today. He muttered to himself throughout the day. Simpson, who pleaded not guilty in November, is free on $250,000 bail. His bail was doubled in January by Glass after he attempted to contact Stewart. The trial is expected to last around five weeks, said Michael Ommermeyer, the court's information officer. A 12-person jury of nine women and three men, along with six alternates, was seated Sept. 11, Ommermeyer said. The Goldman family, in an effort to raise money and highlight their belief in Simpson's guilt, published Simpson's book, ``If I Did It: Confessions of the Killer,'' an account of the alleged murders that Simpson has said is hypothetical. A Florida bankruptcy court awarded publishing rights to the Goldmans as part of the unpaid civil judgment. HarperCollins, the book's original publisher, canceled publication after the contents of the book drew harsh criticism. The case is Nevada v. Orenthal James Simpson, 07-237890, Nevada District Court, Clark County (Las Vegas).

Russia's ruble was little changed against the central bank's dollar-euro basket on speculation the country sold foreign reserves to buoy the currency. Bank Rossii was ``intervening, selling dollars'' to support the ruble today, said Mikhail Galkin, a fixed-income analyst in Moscow at MDM Bank. The central bank's policy is not to comment on its daily activities in the foreign-exchange market.

Carlos Zambrano showed no signs of the sore shoulder that kept him out for 12 days by becoming the first Chicago Cubs pitcher to throw a no-hitter in 36 years. Zambrano struck out 10 and walked one in the Cubs' 5-0 win over the Houston Astros last night, joining Boston's Jon Lester as the second Major League Baseball pitcher to throw a no-hitter this season. Lester did it against Kansas City on May 19.

Chrysler LLC may need to cut more jobs and trim other costs should U.S. lawmakers fail to approve $25 billion in loans to help the auto industry develop fuel-efficient vehicles, Chief Executive Officer Bob Nardelli said. ``If we don't get the funding, we will continue to have to resize and reduce our fixed costs,'' Nardelli said in an interview in New York on Sept. 12. ``We'll have to make some tough, gut wrenching trade-offs,'' which may include eliminating jobs, he said.

German stocks plunged to the lowest in almost two years after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. said it will file for bankruptcy and Bank of America Corp. agreed to buy Merrill Lynch & Co., the world's biggest brokerage firm. Allianz SE, Europe's largest insurer, slumped the most since January, and Deutsche Bank AG slid to the lowest in two months. TUI AG sank to the lowest in more than five years after Spiegel reported Europe's largest travel company may merge its airlines unit with Air Berlin Plc.

Sony Corp.'s video-games unit hired ``Green Lantern'' writer Geoff Johns to write a multiplayer title based on DC Comics characters. ``DC Universe Online,'' a massively multiplayer action game, is being developed by Sony Online Entertainment, DC Comics and Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment, Sony said today in a statement distributed by PR Newswire. Johns, 35, will work with comic artist Jim Lee.

Brazilian stocks dropped the most in almost a week, dragged down by commodity producers, as the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. led investors to flee from riskier, emerging-market assets. Banco do Brasil SA led banks to the biggest drop in a months as the bankruptcy of Lehman, once the fourth-largest U.S. investment bank, fueled speculation that turmoil in the credit markets will deepen. Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Brazil's state-controlled oil company, slid the most in a week as the price of crude dropped $4 a barrel. Cia. Vale do Rio Doce led a drop for raw-material producers as industrial metals plunged.

New York Yankees catcher Jorge Posada said Joba Chamberlain should stay in the bullpen for the foreseeable future to avoid the kind of injury that sidelined him for a month this season. Posada, who's recovering from season-ending surgery to repair his right shoulder, made the comments during a taping of ``CenterStage'' scheduled to air starting on Sept. 28 on the Yankees Entertainment & Sports Network.

In the biggest reshaping of the financial industry since the Great Depression, two of Wall Street's most storied firms, Merrill Lynch & Co. and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., headed toward extinction. New York-based Lehman, founded 158 years ago, said early today that it filed for bankruptcy protection after failing to find a buyer. Merrill Lynch, 94 years old and also based in New York, agreed to sell itself to Bank of America Corp. for $50 billion in an emergency deal hashed out yesterday.

Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. led a record surge in the cost of default protection and a slump in bank bond prices after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy. Credit-default swaps on Morgan Stanley soared to a record and the New York-based firm's senior notes fell the most since they were sold six month ago. Goldman's senior notes plummeted to a record low and the cost of protecting its bonds against default rose to an all-time high. Sellers were demanding upfront payments for protecting American International Group Inc. and Washington Mutual Inc. on rising concern that they would default.

The following companies had unusual price changes in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are as of 4 p.m. in New York. Financial shares tumbled after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEH US), the fourth-largest U.S. investment bank, made the biggest bankruptcy filing in history and American International Group Inc. (AIG US), the largest U.S. insurer, failed to present a plan to raise capital and stave off credit downgrades.

Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., the fourth-largest U.S. investment bank, succumbed to the subprime mortgage crisis it helped create in the biggest bankruptcy filing in history. The 158-year-old firm, which survived railroad bankruptcies of the 1800s, the Great Depression in the 1930s and the collapse of Long-Term Capital Management a decade ago, has petitioned the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York today, according to a statement. The collapse of Lehman, which has more than $613 billion of debt, surpasses Drexel Burnham Lambert's failure in 1990.

Mondays better not get any more manic than this. Wall Street expected to spend today trying to contain the damage from a bankruptcy filing by Lehman Brothers (LEH) after the fourth-largest investment bank failed to find a buyer for its broken balance sheet over the weekend.

Dubai International Capital LLC said it's not involved in a renewed bid for Premier League soccer team Liverpool, and denied talks with the team's American owners are taking place. ``DIC can confirm that it is not involved in any negotiations to buy LFC and is not planning a fresh bid for LFC or any other football club,'' the United Arab Emirates-based company said in an e-mailed statement today.

TestimonyHouse Committee on Homeland SecuritySubcommittee on Emerging Threats, Cyber Security, and Science and Technology"Cyber Security Recommendations for the Next Administration"James A. LewisCenter for Strategic & International Studies Sept. 16, 2008

Following is a list of companies in the Standard & Poor's 500 Index with shares bought and sold by corporate executives, directors and officers reported during the week ending Sept. 12. The figures are compiled from Securities and Exchange Commission filings by Washington Service.

Note: S&P chief technical strategist Mark Arbeter issued this special update on Sept. 15.
 The stock market crumbled this morning as the carnage in some of the major financial companies  continues to weigh heavily on Wall Street.  If the markets don't stabilize in the first hour of trading, we think an ugly day could turn into a disastrous day.  The two keys, in our opinion, are how the major indexes act as they reach their recent lows and what reaction we will see in market sentiment.

Bank of America Corp. reached a deal to acquire Merrill Lynch & Co. for about $44 billion, the Wall Street Journal reported, after shares of the third-biggest U.S. securities firm fell by more than 35 percent last week and smaller rival Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. neared bankruptcy. The boards of Merrill and Bank of America approved the transaction this evening, the Journal reported, citing unnamed people familiar with the matter.

MARKETSCOPE: Treasuries were catapulted higher by a flight to safety in the wake of Lehman Brothers filing Chapter 11, Merrill Lynch agreeing to be bought by Bank of America, and AIG announcing a major asset sale. The 10-year note soared 67/32 to 104-15/32 for a yield of 3.46%. The 30-year bond skyrocketed 100/32 to 106-15/32 for a yield of 4.12%.

Following is a list of companies in the Standard & Poor's 500 Index with shares bought and sold by corporate executives, directors and officers reported during the week ending Sept. 12. The figures are compiled from Securities and Exchange Commission filings by Washington Service.

The European Commission intends to extend the minimum length of maternity leave from fourteen to eighteen continuous weeks, while ensuring a full salary. "Longer leave would have a positive impact on the mother's health in general," the draft commission paper, seen by EUobserver, says, adding that full payment of wages or salary would prevent women from suffering financial losses during their time away from work.

Walter Leisi is holding two rolled cylinders of dough in his hands, each wrapped in glossy foil, one labeled in French and the other in Arabic. Each package contains the same puff pastry, a concoction of 196 layers of flour, margarine, butter, water and salt—the same, but for one difference, a tiny but decisive difference: one is preserved with alcohol and the other with potassium sorbate. They taste the same, but they smell somewhat different. The dough preserved with potassium sorbate smells "slightly more cheesy," says Walter Leisi, 63, a jolly Swiss man wearing a purple short-sleeved shirt and a gold watch. Leisi is the director of a Nestlé plant in the Swiss town of Wangen bei Olten. He is also the inventor of Leisi-Quick, the world's first ready-made puff pastry, which is packaged on baking paper and sold in refrigerated, but not frozen, form and is thus ready for baking. The factory produces more than 41,000 tons of freshly made dough a year, an enormous quantity.

Sony Ericsson, unveiling its much-anticipated Xperia Xi mobile device on Sept. 15, released a nine-part promotional "Webisode" about a man named Johnny X who is trying to piece together his personality and identity. The same could be said for Sony Ericsson, which is seeking to redefine itself as it struggles to differentiate its product lineup from those of rivals such as Apple (APPL), Samsung, and Nokia (NOK). Much is riding on the Windows-based Xperia, which goes on sale in Britain, Germany, and Sweden on Sept. 30 and will become available across Europe, Asia, and Latin America during the fourth quarter.

This Friday, as I sat in my office on the 43rd floor of 1221 6th Avenue, just around the corner from the fancy new headquarters of Lehman Brothers, I was hit by a combination of shock and sadness. Lehman Brothers and Merrill Lynch survived the Great Depression and several world wars. But they could not survive the credit crunch of 2008. This is a historic, tragic and disturbing week that will reverberate for years.

Financials Europe-wide plunge deep into the red as Lehman files for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, AIG (AIG) asks the Fed for US$40 billion in short-term financing and Bank of America (BAC) buys Merrill Lynch (MER) for US$50 billion in an all-share deal. Among the big names getting hammered: AEGON (AEG) (-12.67%), ALLIANZ (AZ) (-7.73%), AVIVA (-7.64%) AXA (AXA) (-12.13%), CS GROUP (CS) (-7.98%), COMMERZBANK (-11.09%), DEUTSCHE BANK (DB) (-8.27%), FORTIS (-11.76%), FRIENDS PROVIDENT (-9.84%), GENERALI (-3.97%), ING (ING) (-7.68%), OLD MUTUAL (-10.3%), PRUDENTIAL (PUK) (-9.3%) RSA INSURANCE (-5.07%), SANTANDER (STD) (-5.29%),UBS (UBS) (-14.63%), and UNICREDIT (-6.74%). LONDON

Losses on U.K. home loans that don't meet standard bank lending criteria, known as non-conforming mortgages, may triple to 22 percent as the credit crisis damps property prices, according to Standard & Poor's. Losses on foreclosed non-standard mortgages, such as loans to borrowers with poor credit histories, rose to an average 7.5 percent at the end of June, from less than 3 percent a year earlier. They may reach 22 percent as house prices continue to fall, S&P said in a report published today.

After New York City's Twin Towers fell in September 2001, rebuilding quickly—and majestically—seemed imperative. But seven years later, there is nothing majestic about the 16-acre World Trade Center site, a construction zone informally called The Pit. In early July, the property owner, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, announced that all of the projects planned for Ground Zero were over budget and behind schedule. The authority's executive director, Christopher Ward, delivered the bleak assessment during a meeting hosted by New York's Downtown Alliance, a nonprofit that promotes development in Lower Manhattan. Ward noted straight off that most of the projects have been "driven by emotional and political needs," and the costs and timetables initially presented to the public are unrealistic. "We are not going to make any of them," he said.

American International Group (AIG) shares plunged 7.38 to 4.76 after the US government reportedly says it won't bail out AIG, but that it has asked Goldman Sachs ticker symbol="GS"/>) and JP Morgan (JPM) to lead a $70-$75 billion lending facility. NY Governor Patterson reportedly says AIG has been given permission to access $20 billion of capital to free up liquidity. Earlier, WSJ reported AIG is pulling together survival plan. S&P Ratings Services placed AIG ratings on CreditWatch with negative implications. S&P Equity Research, Merrill, Citigroup downgraded AIG. Merrill Lynch (MER) agrees to be acquired by Bank of America (BAC) in a $50 billion all-stock transaction. Under terms of the transaction, BAC would exchange 0.8595 BAC share per MER share. The price is 1.8 times stated tangible book value.

By BusinessWeek, Associated Press, and Action Economics staff With selling accelerating in the final hour of trading, major U.S. stock indexes suffered their worst percentage losses in nearly six years Monday, with the blue chip Dow Jones industrial average diving over 500 points.

The federal government cybersecurity team with primary responsibility for protecting the computer networks of government and private enterprise isn't up to the job, according to a draft Government Accountability Office report obtained by BusinessWeek. The U.S. Computer Emergency Readiness Team, known as US-CERT, mans the front line in any cyber-attack. The group monitors computer networks for hacker threats, investigates suspicious activity online, and is supposed to issue timely alerts to information technology security professionals from the White House to corporations and electric utilities. But the GAO draft report describes US-CERT as bedeviled by frequent management turnover, bureaucratic challenges that prevent timely sounding of alarms, a lack of access to networks across wide swaths of critical terrain, and an inability to fill large numbers of positions with qualified workers.

There's been a lot of ballyhoo in recent months over the growing number of actively managed exchange-traded funds (ETFs) that have come to market. The conventional wisdom among financial advisers is that investors should deploy their money using methods that remove emotion from the equation, such as sticking to passive index strategies. Lately. however, some market strategists are saying the wild fluctuations of the current equity environment call for a more active approach to investing, an alternative to sitting idly and watching your retirement nest egg shrivel. But that flies in the face of volumes of research that have shown 80% of active fund managers underperform the benchmark their funds track.

Following recent remarks made by MySQL co-founder, David Axmark, on Asia's lack of contribution back to the open source community, fellow industry spokespeople were decidedly more optimistic about the region's role to play in the open source ecosystem. Arun Kumar, director of services at Red Hat, told ZDNet Asia in an interview that open source first has to be taken up broadly by both enterprises and governments as the first step.

After seven years of ups and downs, the WTO's Doha Development Agenda negotiations registered another failure in July (BusinessWeek.com, 7/30/08). The talks collapsed when the agreement on modalities of both agriculture and nonagriculture market access (NAMA), critical to the progress of the whole round, was almost within reach. This is tragic. Yet multilateral trade negotiations have never sailed smoothly before, so one more setback should not mean the end of the Doha Round. An ever opening-up China remains firm on its support of the multilateral trading system, and would like to advocate an early resumption of the negotiations to help rejuvenate the world economy. Opening up to the outside world is China's national strategy and state policy. The year 2008 marks the 30th anniversary of China's implementation of such a strategy. Over the past three decades, the Chinese government has leapfrogged ahead in economic and social development. Such development has greatly improved the living standards of the Chinese people and lifted 200 million out of poverty while making immense contributions to the growth of the world economy.

Anyone who's ever suffered from an online video timing-out on YouTube knows that broadband speed is important. And it's going to get even more important, as a new generation of Web applications comes on the market. But the quality of broadband service varies widely around the world—and some tiny countries such as Latvia and Slovenia are well ahead of the U.S. Those are among the findings of a study released on Sept. 12 by the University of Oxford's Said Business School and Spain's Universidad de Oviedo. Researchers ranked 42 countries on broadband quality, awarding each country a score based on Internet upload and download speeds, as well as how long it takes online data to reach a computer.

France's CAC 40 Index retreated 139.43, or 3.2 percent, to 4,193.23 at 9:46 a.m. in Paris. The SBF 120 Index lost 3.2 percent.

MySpace is going into politics. The leading U.S. social network launched  today. The site will stream the presidential debates live to Internet audiences as well as provide tools to search for candidates’ stated positions on issues. MyDebates.org is part of MySpace’s attempt to be more than just a place for friends. The company wants to be a place where communities develop around interests. “We are responding to users interest in politics—an interest just like it is for music or film or anything else,” says Lee Brenner, director of MySpace’s Impact Channel and executive producer of political programming at MySpace.





















































































CITIGROUP UPGRADES CHUBB, TRAVELERS TO BUY FROM HOLD Citigroup analyst Joshua Shanker says AIG (AIG) is the largest insurer in the world and a major source in almost every line/geography. He says large amounts of its business could be in play on ratings downgrades.

Investors in Tokyo had an extra day to digest the news about Lehman Brothers' (LEH) bankruptcy thanks to a three-day holiday weekend. But that didn't make them any less unhappy about it. On Sept. 16, the Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 5% to its lowest level in more than three years, closing at 11,609.72, a number not seen since July 2005. Hardest-hit were the banks, with Aozora Bank, the Japanese financial institution controlled by Cerberus Capital that was left holding the highest amount of publicly disclosed Lehman debt, falling 16% from Sept. 12. Other Asian markets plunged, too, with South Korea down 6.1% and Hong Kong down 5.4%. When Lehman's Japan unit, which manages about $11.5 billion in assets for investors, finally filed for bankruptcy protection at a court in Tokyo on Sept. 16, it had debt totaling $38 billion, making it Japan's second-largest bankruptcy in the postwar period. Japan's Financial Services Agency had already ordered Lehman's Japan unit to halt operations until Sept. 26 and ensure that it had assets equivalent to its debts owed to local institutions. Separately, the Tokyo Stock Exchange ordered Lehman to stop all trading at the bourse.

Arthur Redillas has been the associate director of admissions and recruitment at the University of British Columbia's Sauder School of Business for the past two years. He studied education at the University of Alberta and earned a law degree at the University of British Columbia. Before working at Sauder, he spent 12 years as the academic director of western Canada for Kaplan. Sauder's 15-month MBA program starts every year in August. For fall 2008 admissions, Sauder received 372 applications, and 119 were ultimately enrolled into the program. Of these, about two-thirds are international students.

A week after Yahoo executives defended their controversial search advertising deal with Google, the search giant joined the fray today with its own rationale. The deal, announced in mid-June, faces intense scrutiny by antitrust regulators in the U.S. and Europe and opposition from some advertisers and newspapers. In an hourlong meeting with reporters, Google’s executive triumvirate—CEO Eric Schmidt and cofounders and presidents Sergey Brin and Larry Page—said the two companies plan to move ahead on the deal regardless of whether regulators weigh in before a voluntary 120-day grace period ends in early October. “Because it’s a commercial deal, we have a choice of when we implement it,” said Schmidt. “Time is money in our business.”

UK HBOS                     Down GBP0.49 to GBP1.84... Broker cuts numbers on funding fears Citigroup cuts target to GBP2.0 from GBP2.50, keeps sell. Says de-leveraging is likely to be difficult to achieve, as credit lines are drawn-down by distressed borrowers and refinancing activity declines, and damaging to profitability as revenue slows and impairments rise. In specific cases, such as Co., broker believes funding fears could spread to shorter maturities increasing the potential liquidity risk for the bank.

Any other day, Wall Street would have cheered a 5.4% drop in oil prices. That decline for crude futures, however, was accompanied by a nearly 5% tumble for the Standard & Poor's 500 index on Sept. 15. Stocks—as was made painfully clear to investors—are no longer trading inversely with oil prices. Analysts say that investors, who had been pouring funds into commodities as an alternative to creaky stock markets, are now pulling out of the market. The withdrawal reflects a fear that the economic picture will remain bleak, causing reduced demand in both developed and developing countries. The price of a barrel of West Texas Intermediate crude oil slid $5.47, to settle at $95.71 on the New York Mercantile Exchange (CME). It was the first settlement below $100 per barrel in six months. "A weak economy and financial turmoil mean lower demand; that means lower [oil] prices," says Craig Pirrong, professor of finance and energy markets at the Bauer College of Business at the University of Houston.

I want to open an athletic shoe shop selling top brands. I've considered locations including outlet malls, major malls, and a train station shopping strip. How do I determine the best location? —N.W., Fairfax, Va.
 Location is probably the most important decision you'll make as a startup retailer, so you're wise to give it plenty of thought. Start by identifying your target customers. Will you be selling primarily to serious runners, student athletes, or mainstream shoe shoppers?

Scratch that rate cut. Despite a severe credit crunch, Chairman Ben Bernanke and other members of the Federal Reserve's interest-rate-setting committee voted unanimously on Sept. 16 to leave the federal funds rate at 2%, disappointing bankers who had expected a cut of a quarter or even half a percentage point to stimulate the U.S. economy and lower their borrowing costs. The Federal Open Market Committee acknowledged growing troubles in the financial and labor markets but said: "The downside risks to growth and the upside risks to inflation are both of significant concern." Wall Street took the Fed's brush-off in stride, possibly reading the Fed's refusal to cut rates as a signal that the financial situation is less dire than feared. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, after falling about 1.5% immediately after the Fed's 2:15 p.m. EDT announcement, bounced upward about 2.5% and was trading near its daily highs toward the end of the session.

The Boston Red Sox routed Tampa Bay 13-5 to tie the Rays for first place in the American League East, while the New York Mets lost to Washington 7-2 to have their division lead cut to a half-game. The Red Sox slugged six home runs to win for the first time in seven games this season at Tropicana Field in Florida.

Washington Mutual (WM), a company that once considered itself the Starbucks (SBUX) of banking, now has a stock price lower than that of a latte. Shares of the Seattle company, the nation's largest savings and loan, fell 27% on Sept. 15, to $2 a share, following news that other struggling financial-services giants Lehman Brothers (LEH) and Merrill Lynch (MER) had succumbed to the mortgage meltdown. WaMu shares rose 16% on Sept. 16 to close at 2.32 as investors responded to rumors that banking giant JPMorgan Chase (JPM) may make an offer for the company.

I met Tony Hsieh, CEO of billion-dollar e-tailer Zappos, on a shuttle bus at a CEO conference a couple of years ago. So I was interested when Bill Taylor posted a piece on Harvard Business Online about a startling hiring practice at Zappos a few months back. Yes, the company's breathless pursuit of the ultimate customer experience is the stuff of legend. Zappos offers extremely fast shipping at no cost and will cover the return shipping if you are dissatisfied for any reason at any time. Customer service reps are given a lot of leeway to make sure every customer is an enthusiastic customer. The company folklore includes an anecdote about reps delivering flowers to a customer whose mother had recently died.

The Federal Reserve Board on Tuesday, with the full support of the Treasury Department, authorized the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to lend up to $85 billion to the American International Group (AIG) under Section 13(3) of the Federal Reserve Act. The secured loan has terms and conditions designed to protect the interests of the U.S. government and taxpayers. The Board determined that, in current circumstances, a disorderly failure of AIG could add to already significant levels of financial market fragility and lead to substantially higher borrowing costs, reduced household wealth and materially weaker economic performance.

Let’s see — taxpayers bought 80% of AIG, the SEC slapped new restrictions on short-sellers — with a hint of more to come, John McCain said he’d fire Chris Cox if he were president, Cox said he thinks the SEC is doing a fine job, Obama said voters might want to “fire the whole trickle-down, on-your-own, look-the-other-way crowd in Washington” instead… Did I miss anything? Oh, and now Treasury’s Henry Paulson and the Fed’s Ben Bernanke are meeting with House and Senate leaders — no mention of SEC Chairman Christopher Cox — to “discuss market conditions,” “a comprehensive approach to address the illiquid assets on bank balance sheets,” and they are “exploring all options.” More, presumably to come — but maybe not immediately. The statement from the Treasury (in its entirety after the jump) says they “expect to work through the weekend.”

Every time a recession threatens, executives glare at the balance sheet and wonder aloud about one particular expense: brand building. Trimming the marketing budget can seem eminently sensible. After all, doing so won't hurt product quality or, most likely, next week's sales. As the business climate has worsened in recent months, a number of blue-chip companies have announced plans to cut marketing costs, including Coca-Cola (K) and Visa. U.S. automakers have already done so. As have several hard-hit banks. Then there are the other guys—companies that refuse to let tough times distract them from their long-term brand-building efforts. Sometimes they see a recession as the perfect moment to get a leg up on a weakened rival. Others strengthen their brands to ward off discount competitors. Still others feel they have a knockout new product that requires support. In BusinessWeek 's annual ranking of the 100 Best Global Brands, several are keeping their U.S. marketing budgets steady, as a percentage of revenue. Among them are American Express (AXP) (No. 15) and Diageo (DGE) (owner of Smirnoff, No. 89). Others are going further. Louis Vuitton (No. 16), Kellogg's (K) (No. 39), Accenture (ACN) (No. 47), and Kleenex (No. 74) are all aggressively boosting their marketing expenditures as a percentage of expected sales. "There's always pressure to cut," says Jez Frampton, chief executive of Interbrand, a brand consultancy, which for the eighth year crunched the numbers for our ranking and typically advises clients to spend harder during a recession. Consumers, he argues, "are more conscious they're spending their hard-earned money. It increases what they expect they should receive in return." History shows that a recession can be an auspicious time to invest in a brand. Some of the most successful brand campaigns in the past six decades began during economically challenged years. Of Advertising Age's "Top 100 Ad Campaigns of the 20th Century," fully a quarter that got under way after 1945 did so during recession years. Several of the most effective were launched in the ugly years of 1974 and 1975, when consumer spending tanked and gas and commodity prices soared (sound familiar?). In 1974, for example, BMW introduced itself as "The Ultimate Driving Machine," a slogan that endures to this day and helped turn the German automaker from a niche sports sedan in the minds of American drivers into a top luxury auto brand known for superior engineering in everything from roadsters to SUVs. "I love bad times," says Martin Puris, the adman who came up with the slogan. "In good times, people are less apt to try new things. In bad times, they have to start to do things better." Still, it requires a gutsy chief marketing officer to ask the boss to invest in something as squishy as brand-building when the economy softens. CEOs typically set marketing budgets as a percentage of expected future revenue, a number that often shrinks in a downturn. Results-hungry investors, meanwhile, want marketing money spent on activities that ring cash registers now, like promotions or coupons. Even the competition can create temptations to play it safe. Advertisers closely monitor how often their ads appear vs. the competition's. They call this their "share of voice." A pullback by a timid rival gives penny-pinchers an excuse to pull back while still preserving share and save money. And most companies succumb to the pressure. During the last two recessions, in 1991 and 2001, overall ad spending fell. The choice is even harder in the current environment. Amid tight credit and falling housing prices, consumers are more jittery than they have been since the mid-'70s. And some economists worry consumers are only beginning to feel the real hit to their wallets. Right now, the smooth talkers on Madison Avenue are out there telling chief marketing officers that it's smart to buy more ads during a recession. The standard argument, summed up in numerous industry-sponsored research reports, goes like this: Since everybody else is pulling back, the gutsy marketer can buy ads on the cheap, grab a larger share of consumers' attention, and subsequently, the logic goes, win greater market share. Then, when the sun comes out and the economy recovers, the brand will ride high as its newfound customers start spending again. The cowardly competition? Forlorn and forgotten. Real life isn't so simple, of course. Many factors determine whether spending into a downturn will work, not least of which is the quality of the product and the advertising. Plus, the consumer you thought you knew, pre-recession, can be almost unrecognizable. When times get tough, people reexamine old habits and brand loyalties. Their tastes shift dramatically as they cut back. "The rate of change can be phenomenal," says John Hayes, CMO at American Express. In the past year alone, he notes, consumers have far more negative perceptions of debt and spending on themselves. Many companies that continue to invest in their brands during a downturn are not so much going on the offensive as playing defense. AmEx is no exception. CMO Hayes says he has been "doubling down" in recent months on messages that promote trust and security. Often a downturn ups the ante in a defensive battle companies have been fighting for years. In such cases, pulling back is a false economy. Take Kellogg's attempt to ward off cheaper private-label cereals while also raising prices to pass along rising commodity costs. In 2000 the company decided to increase its advertising spending to brand Kellogg's cereals as premium products and avoid being commoditized. And despite a mild recession in 2001, Kellogg's stayed the course. In 2007 it spent $1 billion on advertising for the first time. The strategy so far has worked. In the first six months of this year, Kellogg's was able to pass along higher ingredient costs, while many other food companies couldn't. Second-quarter profits rose 9% and sales 11%, prompting the company to boost its full-year outlook. "We believe it's critical, when the economy gets tougher, that people should be seeing the value of our brands constantly," says Mark Baynes, Kellogg's chief marketing officer. "Brands are much more than flakes in a box." Kimberly-Clark, which owns the Kleenex brand (No. 74) as well as Huggies diapers and Scott toilet paper, is also playing defense in the U.S. Yes, people buy its products no matter how the economy is doing. But broke consumers could decide they are fine crying into store-brand tissues. To justify charging more than its rivals, Kimberly-Clark is following the usual playbook for packaged-goods companies: creating new iterations of the same product—extra-soft tissues, anyone? It's also trying to forge a more personal connection with consumers by spending heavily online and on TV. "The worst thing you can do," says CEO Tom Falk, "is pull in your brand-building spending and become more of a commodity." Then there are the companies that go on the marketing offensive. In some cases, they are perfectly suited to hard times and simply want to remind customers that they represent good value. Wal-Mart Stores (WMT), for example, has recently upped its advertising spending and returned to selling itself as a champion of the low- and middle-income consumer. McDonald's (No. 8) won't say how much it has spent on marketing in 2008. But since its Olympics ad blowout, it has shifted its focus to bargains on $1 menu to keep U.S. sales growing. Some companies, having reached the top, are willing to spend to stay there. Louis Vuitton (No. 16) plans to continue to boost its marketing budget, downturn or not. "We never change the long-term strategy because of short-term problems," says CEO Yves Carcelle. Louis Vuitton's aim is twofold: keeping the aspirational masses hooked on classic luggage and handbags and ensuring that fashionistas continue to see the company as edgy. Louis Vuitton has been pouring money into magazine ads and earlier this year released its first video commercial, which first ran online. The company also ran the 90-second spot—called "Where Will Life Take You?"—on CNN, the BBC, and in movie theaters worldwide. Meanwhile, Louis Vuitton has linked itself to big artists, including Takashi Murakami, with whom it sponsored a traveling exhibit. Global revenue grew 14% during the first six months of 2008. Even underdogs can show some bite during a downturn. Amid slowing sales in the U.S., Volkswagen (No. 53) is going after a niche its Detroit rivals have pretty much left for dead: minivans. Pushing its new Routan minivan, says VW marketing manager Brian Thomas, strikes at the soft underbelly of his rivals: The Big Three have slashed ad spending on minivans, and the entire industry is running ads promoting fuel efficiency. That makes minivans a comparatively quiet niche, one in which its theoretically easier to grab consumers' attention. Thomas expects Toyota (TM) and Honda (HMC), which sell the popular Sienna and Odyssey minivans, respectively, to keep spending steady on marketing these vehicles. But he thinks a lower price (the Routan starts at $24,700) and lighthearted commercials starring Brooke Shields will lure first-time buyers. He wouldn't let on how much the company is spending to market the Routan but says the new minivan is getting more money allotted to it than any other VW model in the U.S. "We know that this is a huge growth opportunity for the VW brand," says Thomas. "It's consistent with our overall business plan over the next 10 years." In other words: What recession? 
For a look at vintage TV ads aired during recessions, go to businessweek.com/go/tv/ads
 
Return to Best Global Brands Table of Contents
 Business Exchange related topics:BrandingBrand IdentityBrand MarketingReputation Management

The American Conservatory Theater in San Francisco would seem to have little connection to Wall Street. But not when you hear Executive Director Heather Kitchen chronicle the impact of tumultuous financial markets on the theater this year: declining ticket sales, a falloff in gifts from small donors, and earlier in September, layoffs of valued staff. Then, Kitchen says, on Sept. 15, she and ACT's administrative director watched in horror as the Dow plunged 500 points. ACT's roughly $20 million endowment is now performing so poorly that there is little income to tap for operating funds. Says Kitchen: "I'm really shaken to see what's going on." From big corporations and arts organizations to restaurants and retailers, the shocks emanating from Wall Street are rattling confidence, upending assumptions, and recasting business plans across the nation and around the globe. The financial markets, of course, are just one part of the picture. Oil prices, home values, and worldwide economic trends all factor into the mix. But Lehman Brothers' (LEH) collapse and the subsequent stock market swoon on Monday had immediate impact in some quarters. Government-owned Korea Development Bank, for one, promptly shelved a plan to issue up to $1 billion in global bonds. Some of the misadventures were almost comic: On Monday morning, as part of a huge promotional event that Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide (HOT) staged in Manhattan's Central Park, Chief Executive Frits Van Paasschen remotely rang the opening bell of the New York Stock Exchange (NYX). "If I had known what sort of a news day it would [be]," Van Paasschen says, "it wouldn't have been the day I would have picked." By Wednesday the public had additional stunning news to digest: The government bailout of American International Group (AIG) and a 38% midday swoon in Morgan Stanley's share price. The crumpling of financial industry mainstays hit close to home for some. Since the mid-1990s, NorthMarq Capital, a commercial real estate banker in Minneapolis, counted Lehman as one of its largest purchasers of loans for securitization. Even as NorthMarq CEO Edward Padilla felt the full brunt of the mortgage turmoil in his own business, he says he always believed "that Lehman would be one of the handful of survivors." Now he'll have to find another partner when the securitization business comes back. And Frederick A. "Fritz" Henderson, president and chief operating officer of General Motors (GM), says, "If you would have told me coming into this year that of the five major investment banks, three would be sold or in bankruptcy, I'd have never thought it would happen." Now, he says, "financial institutions will be even more cautious," making it harder for car buyers to get loans. For most, the fallout from Wall Street has less to do with the fate of a particular institution or even several bad days for stocks. Instead, a yearlong period of tumult, uncertainty, and anxiety about when and how it might end has led consumers and companies alike to rein in plans to spend or expand. José Maria Alapont, CEO of auto parts supplier Federal Mogul (FDML) in Southfield, Mich., predicts that auto sales, already anemic in North America, will now turn down in Europe and Asia. "It's not directly correlated to Lehman and Merrill Lynch (MER)," says Alapont. But "one way or another, the financial turmoil has an impact." Roger Berkowitz, CEO of Legal Sea Foods, a restaurant chain based in Boston, says his corporate catering business is off nearly 10% over the past two months, and Legal has curtailed expansion outside New England. Berkowitz, also a director at Century Bancorp, a regional bank in Medford, Mass., says he's glad the feds seized control of AIG. "I thought it was a Solomon-like decision," he says. "They picked and chose, and I think they picked wisely [in bailing out AIG and not Lehman]. If AIG went, it would screw everyone." Paul Weinschenk, a vice-president at Peterson Cos., a property developer in the Washington area, agrees that the government has to "ensure some stability [in] the financial market." His company has spent a decade developing a 500-acre residentia`l and commercial center in Gainesville, Va. The retail portion was due to open early next year. But now, Weinschenk says, tighter credit and big stores' reluctance to lease make fall 2010 the "best-case scenario." Not everyone is buying into the general expressions of gloom. Daniel J. Warmenhoven, CEO of data storage company NetApp (NTAP) (formerly Network Appliance), counts himself lucky that neither Lehman nor AIG was a big customer (though Lehman did take the company public). He says tech spending is holding up so far—in part because it lowers operating costs. "The analysts are always 'woe is me,' because their industry is getting hammered," says Warmenhoven. "Well, go cry in your own beer. Don't ruin mine." Stephen I. Chazen, president and chief financial officer of Occidental Petroleum (OXY), echoes that. The havoc on Wall Street "certainly makes you more conservative," he says. But as the current crisis unfolds, he notes, "I watch these commentators on TV and say, 'Why would anybody listen to this?'...Why are we turning for advice to people who work for completely failed institutions?"

It's one of the latest ways big business claims to be curbing global warming: More than 750 utilities across the country now offer customers the chance to pay a premium on their electricity bills to generate "green power." But it turns out that, in many cases, most of the money goes for marketing costs, and little can be traced to the generation of additional renewable energy. Lisa Baker of Atlanta jumped at the opportunity last summer to protect the environment when Georgia Power invited consumers to pay extra to "help bring more renewable power to Georgia." Paying the minimum annual premium of $54 "is equivalent to planting 125 trees or not driving 2,000 miles," the utility, a unit of giant Southern Co. (SO), boasts on its Web site. Baker, a 33-year-old freelance writer, joined more than 4,000 other customers who signed up for the Green Energy program. "I wanted [the utility] to know there's a market for renewable power," she says. But public records show that more than 60% of the $239,000 spent during the second quarter of 2007, when Baker signed up, went to advertising and administration. "They are preying on people's good will," says Stephen Smith, executive director of the Southern Alliance for Clean Energy, an advocacy group in Knoxville. Georgia Power says the 60% figure has now dropped to only 15% of overall costs. The company adds that much of the rest goes to purchases from a local landfill that generates methane from decomposing garbage. But buying gas-powered electricity from the landfill doesn't appear to achieve any additional environmental benefit: The renewable gas-from-trash is now actually less expensive than conventional sources like coal. "Any utility would use the landfill gas [without customers' green premium]. It's a no-brainer," says Smith. Georgia Power counters that electricity generated by landfill methane was more expensive than other power when the program began in 2006. In addition, the company says it aims to reduce the green premium by as much as 22%. More than 600,000 U.S. households have signed up for utility-sponsored programs claiming that they reduce greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to climate change. That's nearly double the figure from 2004, according to the federally funded National Renewable Energy Laboratory in Golden, Colo. But given their eagerness for environmental bragging rights, many of the power companies are strangely reluctant to explain with specificity how extra payments from consumers produce green energy that wouldn't be generated otherwise. In July the Florida Public Service Commission pulled the plug on Florida Power & Light's green energy program after an audit found that more than half of the premiums collected went to marketing and administration instead of renewable energy purchases. The program, known as Sunshine Energy, had more than 38,000 participants paying an additional $9.75 a month. In a regulatory hearing in July, Public Service Commissioner Nathan Skop described the program as "all about PR and of little substance." Florida Power & Light staunchly defends the program, arguing that billboards, newspaper ads, and bill inserts were needed to alert consumers. The utility says that the rest of the money went to new solar-power installations and the purchase of renewable energy credits. RECs are certificates indicating that a green power developer, such as a wind farm, has generated environmentally friendly energy. Purchasers of RECs take credit for funding the clean power. Florida Power & Light won't disclose, however, most of the sources that supplied RECs to its Sunshine Energy program, citing confidentiality obligations. Utilities devoting only a modest slice of voluntary green premiums to renewable power generators is something of a pattern. Duke Energy's (DUK) GoGreen Power program in Indiana has signed up more than 1,100 customers, who pay a premium of at least $5 per month. According to Duke's marketing literature: "Purchase of GoGreen power ensures that a specified amount of electricity is produced from renewable sources." But records for 2007 reveal less than 18% of the premiums, or about $15,800, went to brokers to buy RECs; 48%, or $42,950, went to marketing the program. Duke says that while it has had to spend significant amounts to recover GoGreen's start-up costs, the program has nevertheless already contributed to protecting the environment.

Amid all the debate about the long-term impact of an $85 billion federal loan to American International Group (AIG), one thing is clear: The world's most sophisticated insurer proved to be far from adept at managing its own risk. Despite $110 billion in annual sales and assets in excess of $1 trillion, AIG stood at the brink of bankruptcy on Sept. 16. As management persuaded New York regulators to waive insurance rules so it could essentially tap subsidiaries for cash and tried in vain to raise $75 billion from Wall Street, AIG's shares fell as low as 1.25 (down from a 52-week high of 70). The taxpayer-funded bailout, which gives Washington warrants for an 80% stake in the company, won't bring back the $184 billion, or 97% of shareholder capital, that has evaporated in less than a year. How did this happen? One place to start is former Chief Executive Maurice R. "Hank" Greenberg, who built AIG into a global behemoth during his four-decade tenure, in part by expanding into complex lines of business and insuring risk that few would dare to touch. Although forced to step down in 2005 amid an accounting scandal, Greenberg remains AIG's largest individual shareholder and a harsh critic of how AIG was managed under Martin Sullivan and Robert Willumstad, who stepped into the CEO role in June. Under the federal deal, former Allstate chief Edward M. Liddy will replace Willumstad. AIG's board of directors issued a statement saying the federal loan will protect policyholders, address rating agency worries, and "give AIG the time necessary to conduct asset sales on an orderly basis." Greenberg told BusinessWeek on Sept. 17 that the government went too far: wiping out average shareholders with a bailout when all that was needed was a short-term loan to cover AIG's obligations. And he insists things would have been different had he remained at the helm. "I would not have waited until it got to this point," says Greenberg. "We had very strict risk-management controls. Those were obviously not followed." Hours before the rescue package was announced, he led a group of investors who alerted the Securities & Exchange Commission that they were looking at buying AIG assets or even assuming control. But AIG says its financial woes stem from actions taken in 2005 and earlier, when Greenberg was still in charge. "He took a lot of risk," says David Shiff, editor of Shiff's Insurance Observer and a longtime AIG critic. AIG got into derivatives in 1987. A decade later credit derivative swaps—contracts that transfer and, ideally, insure against credit risk—took off. AIG's superb credit rating helped it become a leading player. It often sold protection on other contracts, using its own sterling rating to essentially insure others' collateralized debt obligations (securities often backed by a pool of loans) against losses. Those promises would later haunt AIG. As Jamie Cawley, CEO of IDX Capital, explains: "They were able to monetize their credit rating [and] rent it." AIG was exposed to the U.S. housing market on other fronts, too. It had a mortgage insurance business, United Guaranty, that started to rack up big losses in 2007. It also had invested in mortgage-backed securities that led to $12 billion in costs over the past year as their values plunged—money it owed to its insurance companies in order to maintain strictly regulated capital requirements. By early 2008 it was clear that the company's derivatives were eroding at a rapid clip. AIG's audit firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers, forced it to change how it was valuing the products. That caught the attention of Donn Vickrey, an analyst at Gradient Analytics, who began to question AIG's earnings quality. He went back into the company's SEC filings and chronicled the sharp declines in the valuation of its derivatives. The cumulative losses swelled from only $352 million as of Sept. 30, 2007, to $6 billion just two months later. (How big that figure is now, Vickrey says, is "unknown.") AIG, which had already paid record fines to regulators following its accounting woes, restated earnings, and ousted its chief to assuage regulators, was again under the microscope. Over the spring, the stock fell. In June, former AIG director Eli Broad and two prominent investors—Shelby Davis of Davis Selected Advisers and Bill Miller of Legg Mason—sent a letter asking the board to name an interim CEO to replace Martin Sullivan. Among other things, the mounting subprime losses had caused AIG to report a record $13 billion in losses over the previous two quarters. Greenberg sent a similar missive and criticized his onetime protégé. Management had completely lost credibility, Greenberg argued, and the business was "in crisis." Coming from Greenberg, it was a damning assessment. (Phone calls to Sullivan's home in Chappaqua, N.Y., were redirected to AIG's public affairs office.) AIG Chairman Willumstad, a former Citigroup executive, was named CEO. AIG's credit rating remained critical to its survival over the summer. Even as earnings declined, the company's ratings remained strong. For all its problems, few doubted AIG's ability to repay its obligations. It was still one of the world's most recognized corporate brands, with operations in 130 countries. Its enviable credit rating allowed subsidiaries such as International Lease Finance Corp., its aircraft leasing arm, to borrow on preferable terms. Without that advantage, the logic of staying within AIG would diminish. When AIG reported a $5.36 billion loss in August, talk of a spinoff grew louder. Then the bodies began to pile up on Wall Street, with Lehman going into bankruptcy and Merrill selling itself to Bank of America. If AIG needed yet more cash, where was it going to find it? Washington said financial players were now on their own. Ratings agencies began to downgrade AIG on Sept. 15, triggering terms in their derivatives contracts that required them to come up with an additional $14.5 billion in capital. Having already raised $20 billion in capital through stock and debt offers in May, and $4 billion in a private investment just weeks ago, options were limited. With its stock trading below the cost of Manhattan subway fare, AIG looked like the next candidate for extinction. On Sept. 16, the Fed begrudgingly admitted it couldn't let that happen. AIG, with a swap portfolio valued at $441 billion, involving most of the world's major financial players, was too big to fail. But Washington, which issued a 2-year adjustable-rate loan starting out at roughly 11%, doesn't want long-term ties to AIG. Without knowing all the deal's terms, stockholders, fearing a dilution of their stakes, lopped $4.6 billion more from its market cap on Sept. 17. The primary job of an underwriter is to spread risk around. In making bold bets on home prices, AIG left its business exposed to one terrible turn of events and is paying a steep price. For taxpayers, the question is how deep the mess can get—and how long it will take AIG to get out of it. Then there's the issue of whether $85 billion is enough to do the trick. The government has taken a bigger stake than is typical in bridge loans, experts say, exposing it to the risks of a company whose capital needs have been escalating. "I don't think anyone really knows the risks" says Vickrey. "If they say they do, they're fibbing."

Interbrand takes many ingredients into account when ranking the value of the Best Global Brands. Even to qualify for the list, each brand must derive at least a third of its earnings outside its home country, be recognizable beyond its base of customers, and have publicly available marketing and financial data. Those criteria eliminate most telecom companies, heavyweights such as Wal-Mart (WMT) that sometimes operates under different brand names internationally, and privately held companies like Mars. Interbrand only ranks the strength of individual brand names, not portfolios of brands, which is why Procter & Gamble (PG) doesn't show up. Airlines are not ranked because it's too hard to separate their brands' impact on sales from factors such as routes and schedules. Pharmaceutical brands don't appear because consumers typically relate to the product rather than the corporate brand. Insurance companies, on the other hand, were added last year because they have begun to differentiate themselves and create household names. BusinessWeek chose Interbrand's methodology because it evaluates brand value in the same way other corporate assets are valued—on the basis of how much it is likely to earn for the company in the future. Interbrand uses a combination of analysts' projections, company financial documents, and its own qualitative and quantitative analysis to arrive at a net present value of those earnings. The brand values are based on data collected during the 12 months prior to June 30, 2008. (So more recent developments, including the troubles at Merrill Lynch (MER) and AIG (AIG), are not factored into the brand valuations but are included in the descriptions of each brand.) Step One is calculating how much of a company's total sales falls under a particular brand. In some cases, the brand encompasses nearly all sales, as with McDonald's (MCD). In others it is tied to only one set of products: Louis Vuitton within LVMH Group (LVMH.PA). Using reports from analysts at JPMorgan Chase (JPM), Citigroup (C), and Morgan Stanley (MS), Interbrand projects five years of sales and earnings tied to each brand's products and services. Step Two is calculating how much of those earnings results from the power of the brand. Interbrand strips out operating costs, taxes, and charges for the capital employed to arrive at the earnings attributable to intangible assets. Interbrand then estimates the brand's effect on earnings relative to other intangible assets such as patents and management strength. Finally, those future earnings are discounted to arrive at a net present value. Interbrand discounts against current interest rates and also against the brand's overall risk profile to factor in brand strength. Factors include market leadership, stability, and global reach—or the ability to cross both geographic and cultural borders. The final result values the brand as a financial asset. BusinessWeek and Interbrand believe this figure comes closest to representing a brand's true economic worth. 
Return to Best Global Brands Table of Contents

Consultancy Nielsen Co. estimates that 17% of all Americans — 20 million of us — already rely on cell phones to make all calls. They have cut the cord, and are no longer paying for landlines. Nielsen believes such wireless substitution will skyrocket in the next few months, as consumers try to cut their spending in the face of worsening economy and higher gas and food prices. Ranks of wireless-only consumers will rise to 20% of the U.S. population by year-end, Nielsen estimates. One in five consumers will not have a home phone line by January. That’s staggering.

Slouched in a chair in the Holy Cannoli conference room at Yahoo!'s (YHOO) Silicon Valley headquarters one recent September day, a taciturn Jerry Yang looks every bit the embattled chief executive he is. With profits falling and sales growth slowing, the Internet portal's stock price has sunk below 19—a five-year low and 40% less than what Microsoft (MSFT) offered before walking away from its $47.5 billion buyout bid in May. Angry shareholders are still calling for his head. Then Yang starts talking about the imminent debut of an ambitious online advertising system. He leans forward, and the words pour out. "This is a big bet," he says, his voice rising. "It is truly the next generation of advertising." It's also a do-or-die proposition. More than any other project, the ad system could be Yang's last chance to reverse the flagging fortunes of the company he co-founded in 1994 with Stanford University buddy David Filo. The culmination of a marathon effort by hundreds of engineers, the system—code-named Apex, for Advertiser Publisher Exchange—will be unveiled at the annual Advertising Week conference in New York, which opens on Sept. 22. Apex' goal is to make it far easier to buy and sell display ads, those pictorial and video banners that are the chief revenue source for most Web sites. The core of the system is an open online marketplace where publishers—Yahoo and its network of partners, including 784 newspapers—use a simple dashboard to post ad slots available on their Web pages. Advertisers, using anonymous data on visitors to the pages, can target ads to the most likely prospective buyers in particular geographic areas—say, ads for minivans to married women aged 31 to 40 in the Chicago metro area. In one transaction, they can reach potential buyers on Yahoo and on partner sites. Yang's big hope is that improved targeting, greater reach, and less buying friction will make advertisers willing to pay higher rates. In particular, Yahoo aims to help more Web pages, especially "remnant" pages with little obvious commercial value, command something a bit closer to the rates Google (GOOG) gets on search-results pages. This way, Yahoo can start to close the widening gap between Google's expected $16.2 billion in revenue this year and Yahoo's $5.6 billion. Under a previous ad deal, some newspapers already have generated ad rates on some Yahoo pages two to three times what Yahoo itself was getting. In Atlanta, Cox Newspapers grossed an additional $1 million this year selling ads on Yahoo, thanks to the ability to get broader reach among local consumers and thus lure bigger-spending advertisers. Apex will automate that process, allowing partners to sell ads on many more Yahoo pages. Leon Levitt, Cox's vice-president of digital media, says his company eventually plans to shift all its display ad placement business away from its current partner, Google's DoubleClick unit. Yahoo's ambitious plan has gained urgency in recent days as a tentative $800 million-a-year search-advertising deal with Google faces intense scrutiny from antitrust officials. If that setup is nixed, Yang will be all the more dependent on display ads to convince shareholders he didn't mess up in resisting the Microsoft deal. Meantime, rivals are pursuing similar plans. Next year, Google is expected to expand DoubleClick's own ad exchange, which matches ad buyers and sellers. "We want to apply the science of search to what is today the art of display," says David Rosenblatt, a Google ad executive. Microsoft hopes to expand its display reach in the coming year or so, too. Yahoo has a lot to prove. Its last big software project, a search-ad system called Panama, was delayed repeatedly and has failed to slow Google. Moreover, Yahoo's expertise has always been in building audiences, not creating whiz-bang technology. Indeed, a key piece of Apex is technology from the ad exchange Right Media, which Yahoo acquired last year. The overriding question is whether the company can reinvent itself as a tech power that can compete with the übergeeks at Google, Microsoft, Facebook, and a raft of Web upstarts gradually stealing away Yahoo's audiences and advertisers. "We have to build an advertising system that lives in the Web 2.0 world," says Yang. If he can't, Yahoo's future could be a slow fade to irrelevance—or, if new Yahoo board member Carl Icahn and other shareholders get their wish, a quick meal for a still-hungry Microsoft. The Apex project got under way in late 2006 as Yahoo's fortunes headed south. Tensions over the new tech-focused ad initiative broke into public view in June 2007 when ad sales chief Wenda Millard left for Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia (MSO). In an unusually blunt press release about the staff shakeup, Yahoo said "the industry has shifted and requires a different set of skills." Millard later decried unnamed ad networks that sell ad inventory "like pork bellies." The same month, with no sign of a turnaround, CEO Terry Semel resigned and Yang took over. Despite the turmoil, the project stayed on track through more than a year of development. A half-dozen project leaders and executives conferred every Sunday at 7 a.m. for an hour to plan the week's activities. As a December 2007 deadline to produce a working demonstration system neared, teams worked around the clock to mesh their code. They made it, but Yahoo's business was deteriorating. On Jan. 29 the company said fourth-quarter profits plunged 23%, and its stock slid to a four-year low. Two days later, Microsoft pounced with a hostile bid to buy Yahoo. For all that, Apex rolled out on time to newspapers in mid-August. Yahoo's not done yet. It will open Apex initially to newspaper publishers, plus other partners such as WebMD and CNET Networks, this year and through 2009. Advertisers, agencies, and ad networks will follow, and eventually it will expand it to all kinds of online advertising, including search and mobile ads. Meanwhile, the growth of display ads is starting to slow as the economy slumps. "Yahoo's trying to move more into display at just the time it's declining," says Jeffrey Lindsay, an analyst with Bernstein Research. Yang insists Yahoo is in for the long haul. But his time is running short.

The ruble is tumbling, capital is fleeing the country by the suitcase-load, interest rates are soaring, and stocks are collapsing. Sound like Moscow, 1998? Sure, but it's also Moscow, 2008. A decade after Russia's financial crash, the country's markets are again in turmoil. On Sept. 16, after digesting the news of Lehman Brothers' failure, Moscow shares went into a tailspin. The biggest bourse, Micex, fell 17.5%, its largest one-day loss since 1998, while the rival RTS exchange was down 11.5%. "Stop Falling!" the daily Vedomosti pleaded in a Page One headline. That plea went unheeded as the slide continued on Sept. 17, spurring regulators to suspend trading on both exchanges. The Russian central bank pumped a record $17 billion into the financial system, while the Finance Ministry said it would provide $45 billion in short-term loans to banks. That followed a $20 billion injection one day earlier, which failed to keep overnight bank rates from jumping 2.41 percentage points, to a record 10.83%. The collapse has created a vicious circle. Many investors had taken out loans to buy stocks in a multiyear bull market. As prices fell, they suddenly found themselves forced to put up extra collateral, and the only way to raise cash in a hurry was to sell more stock. "Once things start, you get automatic mechanisms that kick in," says Richard Hainsworth, general director of the RusRating credit rating agency in Moscow. "People don't know where it's going to stop." Since July, Russian shares have lost nearly two-thirds of their value. The sudden panic shows how apparently unrelated events can combine to create a powerful downdraft. The first shock came in late July, after Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin accused steelmaker Mechel (MTL) of price-fixing. A bitter shareholder dispute at Anglo-Russian oil company TNK-BP added to market nerves. Though both conflicts appear to have been resolved more or less amicably, traders soon had another crisis on their minds: Russia's invasion of Georgia in August. Fearing a new Cold War, foreigners dumped the ruble, Russian bonds, and stocks. By early September, locals anxious about a further slide in the currency began piling out of ruble assets and into dollars and euros. "The time when the dollar was considered a much safer investment wasn't that long ago, so many people just had a reflex reaction," says Evgeny Nadorshin, chief economist at Trust Investment Bank in Moscow. Some seasoned investors say the troubles are overblown. "The world has gone mad," says Eric Kraus, who runs the Nikitsky Russia/CIS Opportunities Fund. The market implosion, he says, "is a negative bubble...completely disconnected from economic fundamentals." Second-quarter growth in gross domestic product reached 7.5%, down only marginally from the first quarter, and with oil prices strong, Russia recorded a $260 billion trade surplus in the first half of the year. Help may come from the Kremlin. For months, business leaders have pushed for tax cuts to boost corporate profits. That would be a boon for the hard-pressed oil sector, which has curtailed production because of a crippling tax burden. While the government has been squabbling over the extent of any relief, the stock market crash may break the logjam. But lower taxes wouldn't solve the underlying problems in Russia's financial system. Long-term savings in Russia are close to nonexistent—leaving companies largely dependent on foreign funding. And with oil prices off 35% since July, the global appetite for investing in such an energy-driven economy could fall even further. "If foreign investors don't buy debt and equity, Russian companies will find it harder to raise capital," says Kingsmill Bond, chief strategist at investment bank Troika Dialog. "That is the Achilles' heel of this market."

Bad news. Money, power, and size no longer matter—at least, if you are a brand trying to score with a hot young thing. We girls were just checking out BusinessWeek's list of the best global brands, and we wondered what rock those who made the selections have been living under. Then we realized that, as millennials, we may inhabit the same planet as older folks, but our perspective is a world away. You see, if you want traction with the millennial girl market, the most important thing to realize is that we girls have got options. Think of every modern girl as the most popular girl in high school. There is absolutely nothing desperate about her. Quite the opposite. Today, girls don't have to settle for anything. After all, we've got countless products, services, and entertainment options lining up on our doorstep (or at least on our laptop). In the past, girls were held hostage to just a few channels, having the same messages pounded into their memories. But not today. If we're not excited by a Web site, TV show, or commercial, then (click), we're out of there. Why compromise when a million other fish in the sea are competing for our attention? Historically, girls also had to be content with what we could find at the local retailer. That isn't the case any more. If we don't like what we see at the local store, we can just go online and do a bit of global shopping. In the worldwide mall, boundless prospects are lining up for easy compare and contrast. And that mall is open 24 hours a day. As far as getting stuck in a bad relationship, we have tricks to avoid that. Today, we don't have to waste time with liars, cheats, and brands that treat us badly. Before we say yes to a first date, we pop online, ask around, and get the scoop. Modern girls have a rich network of spies to tell us who you really are…or aren't. Some brands assume Mom determines our choices. But these days, mother doesn't always know best. Who Mom fell for, and what was attractive to her, often doesn't relate to our desires. Our sense of self is different from hers. She didn't have the options, opportunities, and support we do. And besides, our mothers are very busy, and it is typically us hooking them up with what to buy. At this point you may be thinking "chicks are so fickle, there is no way to make them happy." You would be wrong. Girls love, respect, and yearn for strong brands. To us, branding is more important than ever. With innumerable options, finding what we need can be exhausting and overwhelming. In the product-dating game, being committed to the one you love is far more enjoyable than constantly being on the prowl. So how does a brand build equity today, given that money, power, and size don't matter to modern girls? You may be surprised to learn that what we dream about isn't radical at all. What turns us on is strong design founded on solid values and a hearty work ethic. Here is our list of what brands should consider, if they want to be "girl approved." 
Good Looking
 "Girl approved" brands take their appearance seriously. Girls are suckers for good looks and capable of falling in love in an instant. A sexy, unique visual identity turns any brand into a chick magnet. Good design also teaches us about your values. A brand that puts the extra effort into its visual design is a brand that says, "I respect my customers enough to invest in the details." 
Products That Keep Giving
 From love at first sight to just hanging out, a "girl approved" product is always a joy to be with. When a product considers every dimension of our relationship—from hello to everyday existence—it treads on the path to eternal devotion. 
Clear and Fearless Purpose
 There is no greater turn-on than a true leader, be it a guy or a brand. To be "girl approved" is to know who you are, why you are in business, and what makes you special. When a brand confidently stands up for its values, it inspires us. Direction and clarity also makes it feel trustworthy. 
The Ability to Evolve
 Technological advances are changing everything. A "girl approved" brand is capable of adapting to these changes or, even better, leveraging them. We aren't talking about superficial changes so you look hip (a trick far too many brands try). We mean understanding the more profound shifts in lifestyle and self-definition taking place, and embracing them so you remain relevant. Is our wish list too much to ask? We think not. In many ways, it's almost retro: a return to the principles on which many great American businesses were founded. Check out the accompanying slideshow for our scorecard of some of the brands on the list we love and cherish—and those at risk of becoming irrelevant. 
This piece was authored by the girls of 3iying, including Katlyn Graci (age 20), Chi Nguyen (age 17) and company founder, Heidi Dangelmaier.
 
Return to Best Global Brands Table of Contents

Mike McCurry, formerly President Bill Clinton's press secretary, has a story about one long ago campaign that illustrates what media changes have wrought. "We had a conference call every night to discuss how the networks' nightly newscasts portrayed the election. That's an utterly useless call now." I'm sorry, did I say "long ago?" McCurry was talking about 2004, when he was a senior adviser to Democratic Presidential nominee Senator John Kerry. That call, he says now, was "a fundamental navigation point for where we [were]." But tracking the evening news "turned out to be a fundamentally wrong choice. What was happening underneath us was this enormous swell of the grassroots" that was invisible to those newscasts. Indeed, it was invisible to much of the media world—including portions that tilted to the right—until fired-up evangelicals turned out en masse and re-elected George W. Bush. Today's media world—forgive me for stating the obvious—is much different from that of 2004. But those differences have ramifications that may yet surprise. The severe compression of the post-convention campaign makes this both the longest and shortest Presidential election cycle ever. I mean, Barack Obama and John McCain started campaigning in earnest in...when, 2005? 2002? Recall, too, the sheer volume of major events. In one recent 96-hour period we witnessed the following: Obama's acceptance speech; McCain naming Sarah Palin as his Vice-Presidential nominee; Hurricane Gustav boring in on New Orleans; and Bristol Palin becoming the most famous pregnant teen since Jamie Lynn Spears. (Since then, we've experienced Hurricanes Ike and Wall Street.) And now it's easier than ever to get the informational equivalent of an ice cream headache. In 2008 those desiring a quick, real-time dipstick check of certain precincts of the electorate can scan their Facebook pals' status updates, or assemble ongoing focus groups on Twitter. (Remember: Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube (GOOG) did not exist in 2004, and MySpace (NWS) had yet to scale galactic heights.) On top of saturation coverage from established media outlets comes a new explosion in online offerings. During the 2004 election, political junkies could spend hours each morning with abcnews.com's (DIS) The Note, which wrapped tart commentary around links to all major political stories. Now, there's also The Page, which Note founder Mark Halperin updates more or less constantly at Time.com, and a well-reported blog by another Note founder, Marc Ambinder, for The Atlantic. Also, among other newcomers, Politico, the full-bore online political news operation that launched in 2007, and the estimable FiveThirtyEight, which dispenses admirably nutritious information several times a day. On Sept. 11, FiveThirtyEight pointed out that the endless info bloat will extend to polls, too: "It looks like we're going to be averaging something like 10 to 20 state polls and 6 to 7 national polls per weekday"—and possibly more as Election Day draws nearer. (Prepare yourself.) Yet in 2008, more turns out to equal less. The Web, we are told, ushers in transparency. In the current general election it has gotten us two of the tightest, most locked-down campaign message machines in memory. (John McCain's once-legendary openness to the press is now long gone.) The explosion in outlets isn't offering more news so much as increasing the power of those that have scarcity on their side: the campaigns themselves. The Republican campaign shielded the suddenly famous Palin from the press—indeed, from any unscripted settings. You, like me, may find this ludicrous, but the populace punished them with a bounce in the polls, at least in the short-term. And in the eyes of some smart observers, swelling outlets and contracting access has had the perverse effect of increasing, not decreasing, herd mentality. "You'd think all this press attention would put a higher premium on originality," says James Bennet, editor of The Atlantic. Instead, he says, "the echo chamber has intensified." But then today politicos can watch their Twitter and Facebook feeds all day long and thus constantly monitor—and shape—the assumptions of a collective brain. In 2008 you can roll your own campaign: Watch unexpurgated speeches on YouTube, scan customized news and blog feeds. But in the endgame of an election, that's not terribly significant. If you recognized yourself in the aforementioned description, you're what the campaigns call a "high-information voter" and probably made up your mind long ago. The campaigns are now focused on the "low-information voter" just tuning in. Congrats if you can spit out the results of the last three Ohio polls right down to the margin of error, but the campaigns care more about the harried parents of three kids in exurban Colorado who've only started to pay attention. As always, those voters will be pounded with messages as simplistic as an old Miller Lite ad. ("Not Ready to Lead!" "More of the Same!") Given today's information noise, don't count on sober debates about the issues—or clearheaded refutations of questionable ad claims—to gain much traction, unless you love courting disappointment. Yes, the Obama campaign has banked on organization and the power of the social networking aspects of mybarackobama.com, hoping to propel more supporters to the polls on Nov. 4. But we won't know until then if the strategy will work. Instead, the one game in town is, again, a blunt-tool campaign aimed straight at disengaged swing-state voters. Despite hundreds of new online outlets, despite millions of new YouTube videos, that campaign will remarkably resemble those of the past.

When Cui Tao, a 24-year-old resident of Tianjin, China, was looking for that special place to take his girlfriend on Valentine's Day a few years ago, the choice was obvious: Pizza Hut. They had to wait an hour for a table, and the meal cost more than a quarter of his monthly income at the time, but it was worth it, says Cui. "She likes to eat there," he says, adding that they still go for dinner a dozen or so times a year. In the U.S., Pizza Hut is a fading fast-food chain; the number of stores slipped by 17, to 6,127, in the first half of 2008. In China and other overseas markets, though, Pizza Hut is fashionable and booming, adding 50 stores through June for a total of 526. And it's not the only seemingly moribund brand that has found a new life on foreign shores. Retailer F.W. Woolworth, for example, was a fixture of Main Street America until the last U.S. store closed in 1997, crushed by Wal-Mart (WMT). But, under different ownership, the Woolworth name still adorns Main Streets in such unlikely places as Cyprus, Germany, and New Zealand. And remember Eastpak? The no-frills backpacks are tough to find in the U.S. these days, but they're all the rage among French and German teenagers. In fact, Eastpak, which traces its roots to a company that once made backpacks for the U.S. Army, is the biggest-selling day pack worldwide. In recognition of where the buyers are, Eastpak has moved its global headquarters to Belgium. You could call them David Hasselhoff brands. The onetime star of the TV series Knight Rider resuscitated his showbiz career in the late 1980s with a hit single in Germany, becoming a symbol of unlikely overseas reinvention. Long before Hasselhoff's schmaltzy Looking for Freedom stirred Germans in 1989 as the Berlin Wall crumbled, smart marketers knew that brands could acquire new personalities when they crossed borders. The brand pros call it "country of origin effect." For decades products have made a step up in status when they traveled. Heineken (HINKF), a mainstream brew in the Netherlands, became a premium beer after the Dutch company began exporting it to the U.S. in the 1950s. To Germans, Mercedes is not only a maker of upscale autos but also delivery vans and heavy trucks. But Americans perceive Mercedes as a pure luxury brand—one reason why strategists at parent company Daimler (DAI) are thinking hard about whether to export the mid-market A-Class and B-Class models to the U.S. They fret the fuel-efficient compact models could dilute the Mercedes image. Sometimes, though, companies are so successful overseas that they neglect the home market. Pierre Cardin  is all but dead in Europe, though it remains a premium brand in places like Pakistan. Burberry's classic rainwear is huge in Asia, but in Britain the brand lost its cachet a few years ago after an oversupply of checked caps and other garb—some of it counterfeit—became fashionable among football hooligans. "One of the big lessons is that in your local market you have a greater duty to stay fresh. People become bored quickly," says Jez Frampton, CEO of consultancy Interbrand. (Burberry is now making a comeback in Britain as well.) Products have to move upscale when they travel in order to justify the higher costs of exporting. But thanks to the Internet and cheap air travel, word gets around if a company overdoes the upgrade. Gap (GPS), known for cheap chic in the U.S., failed as a premium brand in Germany. AmBev's (ABV) Stella Artois, a distinctly working class brew in Britain, has struggled to achieve the same premium image in the U.S. as Heineken. "If the differences in positioning are too big, you risk destroying the brand," says Andreas Bauer, a partner at Roland Berger Strategy Consultants who specializes in consumer goods. The master of overseas reinvention, the David Hasselhoff of the fast-food business, may be Yum! Brands (YUM) The Louisville company owns Pizza Hut as well as KFC, Taco Bell, and several other venerable brands, all of which are surging overseas. KFC, formerly known as Kentucky Fried Chicken, is closing stores in the U.S. but has been building them in China at the rate of almost one a day—148 through June, for a total of more than 2,700. Part of the secret, company execs say, is to offer a mix of standards with local favorites. So KFC in China sells not only its trademark fried chicken but also breakfast rice porridge. Pizza Hut in India offers a tandoori topping. "The fast-food and casual dining markets in the U.S. are crowded," says Graham Allan, president of Yum! international operations. But in places like Brazil or even France, he says, "we still have massive room to grow." 
Return to Best Global Brands Table of Contents

When the airline industry was deregulated in 1978, it gave rise to a new breed of upstart carriers such as People Express (LUV), Southwest Airlines, and AirTran Airways (AAI). All were able to offer low prices by employing nonunion workers while flying in and out of underused airports. After the 2001 terrorist attacks, traditional carriers including United (UAUA), Delta (DAL), and US Airways (LCC) toppled into bankruptcy, and several analysts predicted the discount carriers would send the dinosaur airlines into permanent retreat. Instead, it's now the upstart airlines that have hit turbulence. The combination of soaring fuel prices, unforgiving credit markets, and a pullback in leisure travel has pushed carriers such as Frontier Airlines into Chapter 11 and prompted the liquidation of others, including Skybus Airlines, ATA Airlines, and Aloha Airlines. Even survivors AirTran, Spirit Airlines, and JetBlue (JBLU) are shedding routes to cut costs. They're also raising fares up closer to those of the major carriers. "For many, their sales pitch was just price, and that isn't much of an advantage for them anymore," says Ray Neidl, an airline analyst for Calyon Securities (USA). Why the reversal of fortunes? Clearly, soaring fuel prices have taken their toll, forcing the discounters to raise fares roughly 5% over the past year just to cover costs. While the so-called legacy carriers including Delta Air Lines and Continental Airlines (CAL) have also been hammered by the oil spike, they tend to ferry a higher proportion of business travelers who are more willing to absorb the higher fares. By contrast, executives at the discounters—one of whom boasted that he had stolen customers not from the big airlines but from bus operators like Greyhound (FGP)—have seen demand fall as some of their most cost-conscious clientele head back to the bus. But the discounters' challenges extend beyond the pump. The wave of bankruptcy filings by major carriers since 2002 has allowed them to narrow the cost advantage enjoyed by discounters. According to Calyon's Neidl, the difference in operating margins between the traditional airlines and the discounters has shrunk since 2004 from 7% to 2%. That has prompted the traditional carriers, who are sitting on larger cash hoards amassed after bankruptcy, to take the offensive against discounters. "For the first time in a while, we're willing to duke it out on routes that the [low-cost carriers] have owned," says an executive for one major airline. "In this cycle we have the better hand, and we're going to leverage it." For their part, executives at several low-cost carriers remain sanguine about their prospects. For one, they say that the uniformity of their fleets—AirTran and Southwest fly variations of the Boeing (BA) 717 and 737—give them an edge in maintenance and pilot training costs over the mainline carriers, which still juggle a mishmash of aircraft accumulated over the decades. Their workforces also tend to be younger—and cheaper—than their larger brethren. But even the mighty Southwest, which has been insulated by shrewdly timed fuel hedges, admits it needs to boost its revenues up to 30% in the next few years to cover costs as its favorable contracts expire. The options: flying more, fees from booking hotels and rental cars on its Web site, and fare hikes. "I don't think anyone is immune in this environment," says Gary Kelly, chief executive of Dallas-based Southwest. Even with oil prices easing, the recent wave of bankruptcies may make it tough to woo the investors needed to get the next generation of AirTrans and JetBlues off the tarmac. "If these conditions remain, you're not going to see many new upstarts," says Robert Fornaro, chief executive of Orlando-based AirTran Airways. Given the quixotic allure of the airline industry, though, some entrepreneurs continue to try. After founding Skybus in 1999—and watching it fold earlier this year—John Weikle is trying to raise funds to launch a new carrier, Jet America. "An investment banker told me once, 'Plan an airline during a recession, fly during a recovery,' " says Weikle. That could be good news for customers. But airline investors may be slow to jump on board. 
Join a debate about foreign ownership of U.S. airlines.

Editor's Rating: The Good: A well-written playbook for execs looking to harness the wisdom of online crowds. The Bad: Some of the examples may be familiar to business readers. The Bottom Line: A welcome look at a burgeoning phenomenon 
Crowdsourcing:Why the Power of the Crowd isDriving the Future of BusinessBy Jeff HoweCrown Business; 311 pp; $26.95
 It's nearly impossible for an executive to wander the halls at a conference or flip through a research report these days without receiving words of wisdom about the power of the crowd. Consumers are using wikis, blogs, and social networks to make an impact on brand building, publishing, and even product creation. Working together—often unwittingly—by adding material to Wikipedia or by rating songs on music site Last.fm, they're creating a vast shadow workforce. All this is clear. What may be less obvious to businesspeople is just how to get the crowd to work for them. Jeff Howe is a Wired magazine writer who first analyzed the phenomenon from the outside and coined the word "crowdsourcing" for how business was enlisting the masses to help stoke a popular trend. In a neat trick, he is now offering advice on how businesses can adapt. In Crowdsourcing: Why the Power of the Crowd is Driving the Future of Business, he explains how companies, from startups such as iStockphoto to established giants including Hewlett-Packard (HWP) and Dell (DELL), are embracing the digital herd. Books about the crowd are becoming a crowd unto themselves. Four years ago, James Surowiecki provocatively argued in The Wisdom of Crowds that the masses are often better problem solvers than the experts. Earlier this year, Clay Shirky's Here Comes Everybody updated that theme, explaining how Web 2.0 social networking is reshaping conventional organizations. What sets Howe's book apart is his focus on business, an examination of different crowdsourcing models, and a deep dive into academic research to explain why people work together. It's a welcome and well-written corporate playbook for confusing times, even though some of Howe's examples may be familiar to business readers. The blueprint for crowdsourcing, Howe explains, is the open source movement, a community of developers who work together to create software alternatives to Microsoft's (MSFT) products. Much has been written about open source, but the topic is worth revisiting, since it helps explain the motivations of crowdsourcing participants. Like the open source geeks, many who work on crowdsourcing projects are amateurs or at best part-timers in the field to which they contribute. Howe breaks crowdsourcing into four models, laying out examples that businesses can tailor to their own circumstances. In the first, "collective intelligence," companies including Dell and gold-mining group Goldcorp (GG) ask people inside and outside the company to help solve problems and suggest new products, such as Dell's Linux-based computers. The second model, "crowd creation," is used by businesses such as Current TV and Frito-Lay (PEP) to create news segments and video ads. People vote for their favorite T-shirt design at apparel maker Threadless' Web site, thereby illustrating "crowd voting." Startups SellaBand and Kiva use the last model, "crowdfunding," to underwrite new music labels and fund microloans to individuals. Howe's best example is iStockphoto, a startup that is undermining the established stock-photo business. The community began in 2000 as a vehicle for hobbyists who wanted to trade their pics. Two years later, iStock began selling photos for 25 cents each to cover bandwidth costs. Clients flocked in, and in 2006, Getty Images bought the enterprise. Now, with 60,000 part-time photographers and illustrators on board, 3.5 million images in the bank, and 2 million customers, iStock is the world's third-largest dealer of images. Howe sweeps away certain misapprehensions about such activity. While it's true that most people who are involved don't get paid, they still need incentives. At iStockphoto, that comes in the form of workshops in which people meet and share expertise. And Howe warns that not all crowds are created equal. For example, he suggests that sports teams would do better to use fantasy-league enthusiasts rather than scientists to handicap up-and-coming athletes. Perhaps the hardest lesson for businesses is the importance of including people with whom you don't ordinarily work. Organizations reinforce similar approaches and inside-the-box thinking. When you're looking for something truly different, the crowd can lead you down a less traveled path.

Bombardier Inc. and Alstom SA are likely candidates to buy a stake in Russian rail-equipment manufacturer ZAO Transmashholding, Vedomosti reported, citing Chief Executive Officer Andrei Andreyev. Moscow-based TMH plans to select a ``strategic investor'' by the first quarter of next year, Vedomosti said, citing Andreyev. Bombardier, the Montreal-based trainmaker that has joint ventures with the Russian company, and France's Alstom are ``probable candidates,'' the CEO said, according to the newspaper.

In the late 1980s, Washington created the Resolution Trust Corp. to restructure the mortgages held by 750 insolvent savings and loans. By selling off assets over time rather than in a fire sale, the RTC lessened the cost of the crisis to taxpayers. So far, the feds' ad hoc solutions have failed to stem the crisis, leading many people to call for a new RTC. Ex-Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers and former Federal Reserve Chairmen Alan Greenspan and Paul Volcker are backers, as is Representative Barney Frank (D-Mass.), the powerful head of the House Financial Services Committee. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson has rejected the idea. But if things get worse, "the odds rise in the next Administration," says Tom Gallagher, head of policy research at broker ISI Group. A new RTC would be a buyer of last resort. It might buy the mortgages and related debt from banks at a heavy discount or in exchange for equity. Or it could let troubled institutions go bust, then liquidate those assets in an orderly fashion. "Rather than seeing forced sales for 10 cents on the dollar, the government could take its time and get, say, 40 cents on the dollar," says Lawrence J. White, an economics professor at New York University. There are problems, though. The RTC took on some $225 billion in junky S&L assets and sold them for $140 billion, but today's price tag could be far higher. And restructuring the complex mortgage-backed securities that are at the heart of the 2008 crisis would be much tougher than working out simple home loans. Finally, "doing this would be an admission that we are in deep, deep trouble," says Brad W. Setser, a former Treasury official who is now at the Council on Foreign Relations. But, he adds, "if the situation doesn't stabilize, we have relatively few policy options left."

When Bobbie Joe Crail prepared to return home to Detroit after visiting friends in St. Louis in mid-September, she checked the online fares for flights she had taken in the past. Stunned at the high prices for a seat on JetBlue Airways (JBLU) and Southwest Airlines (LUV), Crail, 22, cast about for alternatives. After a little digging, she stumbled on Megabus, an upstart bus line that would get her home—albeit over a two-day trek that wound through Chicago—for a mere $30. "The bus can be inconvenient," Crail sighs. "But it's so much cheaper to string bus trips together than to fly." If airline deregulation spawned a generation of low-cost carriers, the era of $100-a-barrel oil is giving rise to a new breed of discount bus operators. And unlike discount airlines, low-cost bus lines are thriving. While overall bus travel continues to grow in the mid-single digits, discount operators such as BoltBus, DC2NY, Vamoose, and Coach USA's Megabus are enjoying heady growth by offering cheap, no-frills travel. "People are looking for alternatives...that are safe, reliable, and affordable," says Dale Moser, COO at Coach USA. "We think [growth] is going to continue." Six-month-old BoltBus (a joint venture of Greyhound Lines and Peter Pan Bus Lines) won't disclose revenues, but it says it has ferried 225,000 passengers among the high-traffic cities of the Northeast—about 10% more than originally forecast. And Chicago-based Megabus says it has grown at a rate of 107% annually since its 2006 launch, prompting it to expand as far afield as Memphis, Toronto, and Boston with fares starting at $1, though only one seat per bus is guaranteed at that rate. "It's not just high fuel prices—it's the hassle factor at the airports that has left many fliers disenchanted," says Joseph P. Schwieterman, a professor of transportation at DePaul University. "Travelers who wouldn't have given  a thought to bus travel are now stepping on board." For bargain bus lines, the key to  success is their ability to keep costs  to a minimum. BoltBus, for instance, picks up passengers curbside, sparing it the expense of leasing space at a terminal. And it only sells tickets online, which eliminates the cost of employing  ticket agents. (Roughly 90% of Greyhound's tickets are sold either  by phone or at a terminal.) BoltBus is also building business with a frequent-rider program. Whether such players are making fistfuls of money at these prices is open to debate. But passengers are enjoying the ride. BoltBus offers free wireless Internet and power outlets. And at no point do passengers have to take their shoes off, undergo a pat-down, or deal with long airport delays.

Georgia Gulf Corp., North America's largest producer of vinyl construction products, suspended its quarterly cash dividend for the first time in a decade because of weak demand from homebuilders. The company had paid a dividend of 8 cents a share every quarter from April 1998 through July 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The dividend was equal to an annual yield of 8.9 percent at yesterday's closing price of $3.60 a share.

Will the credit crunch decimate money-market funds next? Money-market funds are considered one of the safest places to park cash. But that, like everything else in this wild market, is being challenged. The Reserve Fund, one of the most esteemed players in the money fund industry got caught holding Lehman Brothers short-term debt. (Ironic, since founder Bruce Bent is known as the person who democratized money funds for the masses.)

Manchester United started defense of its Champions League soccer title with a 0-0 home draw today against Villarreal, while Arsenal tied 1-1 at Dynamo Kiev. United, aiming to become the first team to win consecutive titles since AC Milan in 1989 and 1990, played two scoreless draws with Villarreal in the group stage three years ago. That was the last time the English team failed to reach the knockout rounds of Europe's elite club competition.

By refusing to pony up more money to save Lehman Brothers (LEH), the U.S. government took a high-stakes gamble over the weekend of Sept. 12-14. After committing $29 billion to the teardown of Bear Stearns and up to $200 billion in the nationalization of Fannie Mae (FNM)and Freddie Mac (FRE), Washington looked at the plight of Lehman and just said no. Yet, not two days later, the Federal Reserve gave troubled insurer American International Group (AIG) an $85 billion loan, effectively taking over the company. Who survives and who doesn't? Those decisions could usher in the end of the credit crisis—or they might mark the end of any hope for an economic recovery next year. This new uncertainty in the outlook reflects the cost of stepping back from moral hazard. Policymakers know that moral hazard—which arises when institutions don't bear the full consequences of their actions—can never be eliminated. Rather, they view the problem as a trade-off between the risk that government bailouts could encourage financial imprudence and the danger that without them, an event such as the failure of AIG could collapse the system. In the case of Lehman, the Fed and Treasury took a gamble that Lehman's failure could be a major step toward healthier financial markets. As for AIG, the risk to the system was simply too great. Events are still fluid, but the economic impact of these latest financial shocks should be modest as long as their ripple effects don't erode the capital bases of sounder institutions. Such a spillover, a big risk in the case of AIG, would severely crimp the availability of credit at a time when the economy is weak—partly as a result of already tight credit conditions. The Fed is front and center in the efforts to contain the damage, not only to the financial system but also to the economy. It continues to treat the two problems with two different medicines: applying direct help for the credit market's woes via its innovative lending facilities and the broad power of interest rate cuts for the ailing economy. This two-pronged approach was clear from the Fed's failure to acquiesce to market desires for a rate cut on Sept. 16. It held its target rate at 2%, believing past rate cuts are sufficient to promote growth. Meanwhile, the Fed's lending programs, including additional enhancements on Sept. 14, are aimed at assuring liquidity at both depository institutions and investment banks. Those funds helped contain the wider damage from Lehman's fall, but those programs are not available to AIG because it is an insurer, not a bank. That they allowed Lehman to fail suggests policymakers felt they had sufficient liquidity in place to protect the system. The new question for the Fed is how badly the latest upheaval will harm the economy by cutting further into the availability of credit to households and businesses. Companies will be even more hesitant to commit money to capital projects and new hires, and household balance sheets will take another blow from sagging stock prices. Even before the current storm, August reports on consumer spending, housing starts, industrial production, and employment showed the economy had already weakened further. The Fed's Sept. 16 statement showed that policymakers were still seeking the right balance for its more traditional trade-off—the one between stifling economic growth and stoking inflation. While giving equal weight to those two worries, saying they were each "of significant concern," the wording represented a sharp upgrade in angst about economic growth, compared with previous statements. The Fed appeared to leave the door ajar for a possible rate cut later this year, if the economy deteriorates further. Optimally, the Fed's two-track efforts will at least lay the groundwork for both an economic recovery and stronger financial markets. And if policymakers' choices between moral hazard and tough love don't backfire, they will purge the system of weak financial players and promote a more realistic pricing of risk across all markets. Right now, though, that's a very big if.

The German association representing chemical companies including BASF SE and Bayer AG cut its forecast for 2008 sales in the industry, citing rising raw-material and energy costs. Revenue will rise 4.5 percent in 2008 at the country's chemical producers, compared with a July estimate of 5.5 percent, the Verband der Chemischen Industrie said in a statement today.

The following stocks may have unusual price changes in European markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are from the last close. The Dow Jones Stoxx 600 fell 2.1 percent to 258.04. The Dow Jones Stoxx 50 Index declined 2.3 percent to 2,597.65. The Euro Stoxx 50 Index, a benchmark for nations using the euro, lost 2.3 percent to 3,018.77.

Qantas Airways Ltd., Australia's largest airline, met with corporate clients and other customers after several incidents on its flights raised concerns that safety standards may be slipping. Qantas started the briefings ``recently,'' it said in an e-mail reply to Bloomberg queries. The Sydney-based carrier was ordered by a government regulator this month to improve the maintenance of its planes.

The following companies are having unusual price changes in Brazil trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are as of 4:19 p.m. New York time. Preferred shares are usually the most-traded class of stock. The Bovespa index fell 6.7 percent to 45,908.51.

In recent weeks we have seen heroic actions by financial regulators. From the Treasury Secretary to the Federal Reserve to the New York State insurance commissioner, public officials have worked tirelessly to control the chaos in the financial marketplace. Once again, it is clear that America has learned very well how to respond to crises. But is that all we have learned? It's a question we need to ask ourselves and our candidates for President and Congress. Amid the ongoing turmoil, it seems obvious we must reinvent our government and create an efficient system that can anticipate and avoid major crises. Despite many opportunities, however, this is not a lesson we have taken to heart. Whether the task is fixing health care, upgrading K-12 education, bolstering national security, or a host of other missions, the U.S. is better at patching problems than fixing them. Part of the reason is that we have two parties lacking comity and a sense of shared national responsibility. But beyond the partisan divide, I would argue that the processes of government are broken, preventing us from taking responsible actions. Visit USA.gov and you'll find thousands of directorates, agencies, boards, offices, and services replete with overlapping responsibilities, ancient priorities, and divided accountability. We do not need Departments of Commerce, Labor, and Education; we need a single Department of Skills that will promote an integrated approach to global competitiveness. Our military should be trained and structured around missions, not the elements of air, water, and land. That requires fundamental change, but instead, the Defense Dept. has established an overlay of "commands" to compensate for organizational deficiencies. Does it make sense, in 2008, even to have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms & Explosives? If so, why is it part of the Treasury Dept.? Then there's the financial sector. Behind the debacles at Bear Stearns (BSC), Fannie Mae (FNM), Freddie Mac (FRE), Lehman Brothers (LEH), and Merrill Lynch (MER) lies a startling failure to modernize our regulatory systems, despite obvious changes in the financial markets. Ben Bernanke and his colleagues at the Federal Reserve have done an extraordinary job in the past 12 months, but the regulatory processes in place are ad hoc and depend on leaders undertaking risky initiatives. Now more than ever, we need a single federal organization to oversee all of our financial institutions. If our new President and our congressional leaders accept the need to reinvent the federal government, it will take a bipartisan, multiyear effort that draws on the experience of our business community. I would like to see a team of business leaders and experienced government staff led by two co-chairs: one business executive and one former high-level Washington official. This reengineering team would report to the President and four to six congressional leaders, who would meet once a month to review its analyses and recommendations. If the idea sounds familiar, it's because we tried this approach once before, under President Ronald Reagan. I'm thinking of the 1982 Grace Commission, which was led by 161 top executives from the private sector. The commission concluded that nearly one-third of all taxes collected by the federal government are squandered through inefficiency. And it came up with 2,478 recommendations that, together, might have transformed the basic processes of government while saving hundreds of billions of dollars. Few of the recommendations were ever tried. Today, the goals of such a commission would be different but the spirit would be the same. Would it succeed? If nothing else, the gravity of the current financial and economic crisis might force new leaders to study the panel's findings and strive to make government more effective. The future of our country may hang in the balance.

The following companies had unusual price changes in Canadian trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are as of 4:10 p.m. in Toronto. The Standard & Poor's/TSX Composite Index fell 2.9 percent to 11,877.69.

The U.S. government took control of American International Group Inc. in an $85 billion bailout to prevent the bankruptcy of the nation's biggest insurer and the worst financial collapse in history. The Federal Reserve will provide a two-year loan, take 79.9 percent of the New York-based company's stock and replace its management because ``a disorderly failure of AIG could add to already significant levels of financial market fragility,'' according to a statement by the central bank late yesterday.

France's CAC 40 Index dropped 87.29 points, or 2.1 percent, to 4,000.11, the lowest level since May 2005. The SBF 120 Index decreased 2.1 percent. The following were among the most active stocks in Paris. Symbols are in parentheses.

T-Mobile USA just announced the financial terms that will govern its new developer’s program. Applications submitted through the program will be featured in an app store, due to come online in the fourth quarter. But developers can already use T-Mobile’s special revenue calculator to figure out how much money they will earn. We already know that all developers of paid applications featured in the store will get a cut of at least 50% of the apps’ sales price. But this cut may rise to up to 70% if the developers meet four conditions:

If you're feeling pummeled by market mayhem, you're not alone. With Lehman Brothers (LEH) filing for bankruptcy, Merrill Lynch (MER) selling out, and AIG getting a government bailout, investors have been knocked for a loop. Financial advisers have been fielding phone calls from panicked clients, but the smarter ones called their clients first to put things in perspective. "My issue with my clients is: Are they getting to a place where they cannot sleep?" says David Diesslin, a financial planner in Fort Worth. BusinessWeek spoke with more than 15 of the country's top financial advisers to find out what's keeping their clients awake at night. Here's what they're telling them to do about it. Should I pull my money out of the market?In short, no. With the Dow Jones industrial average down 4.4% on Sept. 15, and off 22.9% from its peak last October, investors are undoubtedly watching portfolios shrink. Right now, it's hard to see beyond the bad news. But the market has survived major upheavals in the past—the savings and loan crisis, for example. In fact, a number of advisers see a positive sign in the government's decision to allow Lehman to fail. "In the short term, there will be volatility and uncertainty, but the world didn't come to an end," says Coral Gables (Fla.) financial planner Harold Evensky, who was rebalancing clients' portfolios to make sure equities kept their weighting after the sell-off. "Investors who are properly invested own little pieces of companies around the world, and, for the most part, those companies are still fine and making money." The smart strategy remains the tried-and-true one: Set your asset allocation and stick with it. Panic selling is more likely to harm your portfolio than doing nothing. "Selling at the bottom is not a good strategy, but I'm not a soothsayer," says Laurence Kotlikoff, an economics professor at Boston University and president of ESPLanner. "All I can say is, I'm staying in the market. The U.S. economy can get along quite nicely with fewer Wall Street investment companies, none of which seems able or willing to tell shareholders precisely what they are holding." I have a life insurance policy or annuity with AIG. What will the Federal Reserve bailout mean for me?It means you can take a deep breath. Even when there was a risk of bankruptcy, American International Group's insurance subsidiaries appeared healthy and policyholders weren't really at risk. There are numerous safeguards in place for policyholders. Now, with the government injecting $85 billion into the parent and the risk of bankruptcy gone, policyholders should be able to stop worrying. What about my money market fund? Could it be affected by the market turmoil?Sadly, yes. On Sept. 16, The Reserve Fund announced that hundreds of millions of dollars of debt securities issued by Lehman (LEH) and owned by its Primary Fund were worthless. That means The Primary Fund "broke the buck"—net asset value fell from $1.00 per share to $0.97. At Evergreen Investments (ERC), however, parent Wachovia (WB) announced it would support the value of three money funds so they would not reflect the decline in value of Lehman debt. Several other money funds have followed suit. What if I now realize my investment strategy is way off? Should I move my money?If you were 100% in equities or overweight in your own company's stock, it's good to get out of denial about the risks. "This is a wake-up call for a lot of people," says Christine Fahlund, a financial adviser at T. Rowe Price Group (TROW). "People are finding out that their risk tolerance isn't what they thought it was or that they're not superstars when it comes to investing." The big question is how quickly to act. "It's not a good time to sell anything, so it depends how bad it really is," says George Feiger, chief executive of Contango Capital Advisors in Berkeley, Calif. Investors not yet approaching retirement may be able to move portfolios toward a desired asset allocation slowly and wait for the market to settle down. Will I still be able to retire?The real reason to worry isn't market movements, no matter how nerve-wracking; it's whether you're saving enough. If you're in your 20s, 30s, or 40s, you've got lots of time on your side. "With a longer time horizon, say 10 to 20 years, even the crash of 1987 looks like a blip," says Michael Mauboussin, Legg Mason's (LM) chief investment strategist. For some people on the verge of retirement, there's a tougher reality that may mean working longer. Psychologically, being able to blame the market turmoil is helping investors cut through their denial about how long they're going to need to work to have a comfortable retirement. "It's the first time that people are saying publicly, 'In this market,  I am not ready to retire,' " Fahlund says. "The reason is probably more than just their investments, but finally they can share these emotions with people and feel like they are in this together." What if I'm already retired?The big problem is the cash squeeze that can come from the double whammy of lower asset values and interest rates. With your portfolio throwing off less cash, you may be tempted to reach for yield. Or you may consider selling assets—at what are now low valuations. Do either, and you could face trouble in the long term. "It's easy to tell a guy who's 35 and panicking that this is the wrong time to sell. But the consequences are worse if you're older, and it's harder to overcome the emotion and fear," Feiger says. Be sure to run the numbers, and don't assume you'll be short because of the plunge on Sept. 15. Is this a buying opportunity?That depends on your risk tolerance. "We may not have final markdowns yet, but if you have the stomach, some investments are looking cheaper," Diesslin says. Even so, he'd steer clear of financials. Stephen Wetzel, a financial planner and adjunct professor of financial planning at New York University, is far less circumspect. "I'm buying like a crazy man: value stocks, financial services, value funds, muni bonds, some international small cap. You don't get opportunities like this very often."

The following companies are having unusual price changes in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are as of 11:40 a.m. in New York. Airlines fell as crude-oil prices rebounded, sparking concern that rising fuel costs may hurt earnings. AMR Corp. (AMR US), owner of American Airlines, lost 11 percent to $11.52. Continental Airlines Inc. (CAL US) sank 12 percent to $18.63.

Longs Drug Stores Corp., the pharmacy chain that agreed to be acquired by CVS Caremark Corp. for $2.7 billion, said its board decided not to enter discussions with Walgreen Co. over a higher takeover bid. Financial information that Walgreen requested so it might hold negotiations won't be provided, Walnut Creek, California-based Longs said today in a statement.

UBS AG gained in Swiss trading after the U.S. reversed its opposition to a bailout of American International Group Inc. Switzerland's biggest bank gained as much as 14 percent and rose 5 percent to 17.47 francs at 12:53 p.m. in Zurich. AIG, the biggest U.S. insurer, accepted an $85 billion federal loan and gave the government a majority stake, averting the worst bankruptcy in history.

Solar Integrated Technologies Inc., a maker of solar panels for Tesco Plc and Henkel KGaA, won three U.S. contracts from Johnson Controls Inc. worth a combined $3 million. Solar Integrated will supply and install photovoltaic roofing systems on projects in Wisconsin, California and Washington, the Los Angeles-based company said today in a statement distributed by the Regulatory News Service. The contracts will be completed by the end of the year, it said.

Short-term debt costs for GMAC LLC, UBS AG and Sears Holdings Corp. soared as the oldest U.S. money-market fund saddled investors with losses, sapping confidence in assets once considered among the safest. GMAC, owned by Cerberus Capital Management LP and General Motors Corp., is willing to pay the most to borrow in the commercial paper market since Dec. 31, 2007. The rate for Zurich- based UBS jumped to the highest since March 4. Sears, the biggest U.S. department-store company, is offering the most in six months to sell the debt.

Mark Cuban tried to change the way movies are released, putting them into theaters, broadcasting them on cable, and releasing them on DVD in the same short time-frame. Steve Jobs tried to turn iTunes into the world's largest video store. George Lucas tried to spark a revolution in digital cinematography and digital projection. All of them ran into a barrier they weren't expecting: Hollywood's intense resistance to innovation.

Ireland's financial regulator remains on ``high alert'' as the financial crisis that's engulfed Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and American Investment Group Inc. shows little sign of ending. ``The events of recent days demonstrate that it is still unfolding and looks likely to go on for some time yet,'' Patrick Neary, chief executive officer of the Irish Financial Services Regulatory Authority, said in a speech in Dublin today. ``We continue to remain on high alert and to be vigilant to any emerging risks, especially as regards the availability and cost of funding in the international money markets.''

Amid the wild ups and downs of financial markets this year, there's been one constant: No matter what happens, the Shanghai market will fall. For instance, when all other Asian markets soared in early September after the U.S. government announced its rescue of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, Chinese shares sank (BusinessWeek.com, 9/8/08). With investors worried about inflation, an export slowdown, and slumping demand in the U.S. and other countries, the Shanghai market has plunged (BusinessWeek.com, 8/12/08) 64% since the start of the year, making it by far the worst-performing market in Asia. And it's still falling: From a high last Oct. 16 of 6124 points, the index fell to a new 52-week low on Sept. 17, closing at just 1924 points. It's not the best time to be one of the only U.S. fund managers specializing in the Shanghai market. Yet that's the position Aaron Boesky, a 33-year-old Michigan State graduate, finds himself in now as the Hong Kong-based founder and chief executive officer of Marco Polo Pure Asset Management, a boutique fund that focuses on trading Shanghai-listed shares. Marco Polo, he says with irony, is the "poster child" for the market's collapse. Boesky (his cousin is 1980s-era financier and convicted insider-trader Ivan Boesky) launched the fund in 2004 and at its peak early this year had $175 million under management. The figure has shrunk to about $115 million, he says, largely because of the meltdown in the Shanghai market. "We are at the epicenter of what has happened," he says.

Rafael Nadal has grown comfortable on the main courts at Wimbledon and the French Open. He's struggling a bit with his newest venue, a bullring in Madrid. Nadal, who took over tennis's top ranking last month, and his teammates from Spain will face the defending-champion U.S. in the Davis Cup semifinals starting tomorrow. The matches will be held on a clay court built in Las Ventas, a 69-year-old arena that hosts 70 bullfights a year.

As their employees and customers call for action on climate change, companies have tended to focus on renewable energy, such as solar power. But now businesses are shifting their focus to increasing energy efficiency. Companies recognize the savings that higher efficiency can deliver at today's energy prices. But those companies are achieving only a fraction of the commercial opportunities possible through innovation. European companies are in a strong position to capitalize on a drive for higher energy efficiency, and Europe's public policymakers are setting incentives that should act as a springboard for companies' efforts. The European Commission estimates that Europe wastes at least 20% of its energy. The European Community has responded by implementing efficiency standards that are often much higher than in North America, Russia, or Asia's emerging markets.

U.K. stocks rallied, rebounding from the steepest two-day drop in six years, led by insurers after American International Group Inc. avoided the worst financial collapse in history. Prudential Plc, Britain's second-largest insurer by market value, and rival Aviva Plc advanced. Lloyds TSB Group Plc gained as the bank holds talks with HBOS Plc to buy Britain's biggest mortgage lender. Barclays Plc climbed after agreeing to buy Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.'s U.S.-based investment-banking business for $1.75 billion.

Darrin Caddes has his work cut out for him. In the dimly lit backroom of a ritzy Manhattan hotel, a dozen or so gadget bloggers and technology writers have gathered to meet with Caddes, vice-president for corporate design at headset maker Plantronics (PLT). But instead of the form-fitting ear pieces or business communications gear Caddes is known for, the soft-spoken, 43-year-old designer is surrounded by a range of gleaming iPod speaker systems, their LCD displays glowing blue and orange. Caddes is charged with hitting the reset button on consumer-electronics manufacturer Altec Lansing, which Plantronics bought for $166 million in 2005. The Milford (Pa.) engineering firm has a long track record of innovation, including pioneering technology that gave voice to the first talking pictures, putting its stamp on everything from professional loud speakers to the audio inside Walt Disney's (DIS) Epcot Center in Orlando, and creating the first speaker system with an integrated iPod dock in 2003.

The company, which announced in January its plans to enter the server market, will debut four core systems, Chris Kelly, Lenovo's director of enterprise systems group for the Asia-Pacific region, told ZDNet Asia Tuesday in a phone interview. Built on IBM's one- and two-socket x86 server technology, the new systems will address about 80 percent to 85 percent of the total market in the Asia-Pacific region, noted Kelly. Lenovo, he added, is not ruling out adding new products such as blade servers in the long-term.

Under-fire airports operator BAA today announced its intention to put Gatwick Airport up for sale. The owner of Heathrow, Stansted and Scotland's three biggest airports said it was beginning the sale process "immediately" and that customers, staff and business would benefit from the decision.

By The Associated Press Another day, but not just another bailout. This one's a stunning government takeover.

In the '90s, the smartest people were telling us that the Internet Revolution had vanquished the business cycle by sending productivity on a perpetual upward climb. Etoys and Pets.com were in their glory. Economic laws no longer applied. And then the bubble burst. In the '00s, the smartest people were telling us that Wall Street had vanquished the business cycle by gaining mastery over risk. No mortgage was too absurd, no leverage too great, no structured product too reckless when risk-spreading models were so brilliantly engineered. Commonsense laws no longer applied. And then the bubble burst, again. So the big question, as we absorb what's happened to Freddie and Fannie and Lehman and AIG and Merrill and, oh yes, Bear Stearns, is this: Do we have the capacity to learn? Despite temptation, can we resolve to assume that if something sounds crazy, it probably is? The business cycle is real. The economy has some direct relationship to supply and demand. Housing, which has grown at roughly the rate of inflation for many decades, probably can't grow a whole lot faster over time. You can't sustain a market based on lending when the borrowers don't have the resources to pay back the loans. It's all pretty basic. That guy on TV right now who's telling us how we can make a killing on real estate, with no money down? We're probably better off resisting the urge to chase that particular dream. In our coverage this week, we'll take you through the misconceptions and mistakes that led to the current crisis; assess what has to happen to get us on a safer footing; consider how long the Fed can keep riding to the rescue; and help make sense of the surprising calamity at AIG. And, in the coming weeks and months, we'll continue to focus on the signs of whether we are—or are not—learning from our mistakes.

Is history repeating itself? That's surely a question many Russians must be asking themselves. Almost exactly 10 years after the financial crash of 1998, Russian markets are once again in turmoil. On Sept. 16, Moscow's largest stock exchange, MICEX, fell by a jaw-dropping 17.5%, the largest one-day loss in a decade, while the rival RTS exchange was down by 11.5%. The free fall continued on Sept. 17, causing Russia's stock market regulator to suspend trading on both exchanges. The Russian central bank pumped a record $14.1 billion into the financial system, while the Finance Ministry said it would provide $44.9 billion in short-term loans to the country's biggest banks.

It is increasingly shaping up to be an open brawl reminiscent of Microsoft's (MSFT) attempt to take over Yahoo (YHOO). South Korea's Samsung Electronics has released to the public its letter sent on Sept. 16 to the board of directors at SanDisk (SNDK) expressing deep disappointment over a delay in its $5.85 billion cash offer for the U.S. flash memory-card maker. Shortly after Samsung disclosed the proposal, SanDisk issued a statement saying its board "unanimously rejects" the offer (although it did not rule out a deal at a better price). Samsung officials say the company is frustrated with four months of unproductive negotiations, so Samsung is going straight to shareholders with a price of $26 a share—an 80% premium to its Sept. 16 close and a whopping 93% premium over SanDisk's closing stock price on Sept. 4, when a Korean daily reported that the two were in talks for a possible acquisition (BusinessWeek.com, 9/5/08).

So much is written these days about teamwork and collaboration. But what about when you have to stand out by taking a stand? Some situations call for confrontation.
 The best CEOs I work with know how to exert pressure, say no, and start and win a fight when necessary. So much for teamwork? Actually, collaboration and confrontation aren't mutually exclusive. There's aggression—a basic survival mechanism—and then there's its tamer, more socially adaptive cousin, assertiveness, which can be deployed usefully, including with people working on the "same side." The need to be assertive comes up all the time. It's essential in negotiating contracts, rejecting bad work, criticizing a strategy, or firing (or defending) an employee. Yet some people will do almost anything to avoid confrontation. Why? They may fear that expressing any displeasure will open the floodgates of their own anger. Or they may have been raised to regard aggression as dangerous or shameful, and to see criticism as hurtful. Confidence and character play a role, too. After all, you're likely to be held accountable if you take a strong position and win. There are prices to be paid for fleeing the good fight: everything from hours of correcting underlings' work (rather than sending it back) to being perceived as a weak leader who tolerates mediocrity. Of course, too much confrontation—or yelling just to vent frustration—won't work, either. If that's your habitual response, you'll be seen simply as disagreeable. (Overly aggressive people use confrontation as a form of armor.) The key, oddly enough, is to empathize with the person you're confronting. To that end, marshal useful facts rather than impressions, offer alternatives along with your objections, and limit comments to the deed, not the doer. Your opponent won't hear anything you say after an attack on his or her character. And don't be self-righteous. Or gloat if you prevail. Nobody likes a poor winner.

Wall Street just jumped into the race for the White House in a big way. The ongoing crisis in credit markets—and taxpayer assistance for a growing list of troubled companies—is taking center stage for both Presidential campaigns. The issue is also offering voters a peek at each candidate's approach toward greater regulation of financial markets. Both campaigns are fervently advocating tougher government oversight—a departure from the Bush Administration's more hands-off approach to financial matters. Senator Barack Obama (D-Ill.) argues that America needs a "21st-century regulatory system" and has seized on the liquidity crisis as an indictment of Republican policies. "What we've seen the last few days is nothing less than the final verdict on an economic philosophy that has completely failed," Obama said in a Sept. 16 speech in Golden, Colo.

These are usually the days when business school students are settling into their class routine and awaiting the arrival of recruiters on campus. But with the downfall of two of Wall Street's investment houses and fears that other major companies are on the brink, it's a nervous time at B-schools. How bad will it be? Most business schools contacted this week say it's too early to tell, but Alan Johnson, CEO of Johnson Associates, a compensation consultancy. predicts hiring will be down by as much as 50% this fall, with students entering what will be one of the most fiercely competitive job markets in recent years.

Big financial companies appear to be falling like dominoes as the credit crisis intensifies. In just the past two weeks, Fannie Mae (FNM) and Freddie Mac (FNM) were made wards of the state, Lehman Brothers (LEH) filed for bankruptcy, and Wall Street's signature brokerage, Merrill Lynch (MER), rushed into a hastily arranged marriage with Main Street mainstay Bank of America (BAC). Market players have anticipated further asset writedowns and credit-rating downgrades for other big industry players by whacking their stock prices sharply lower.

Since April three Hollywood studios—Paramount (VIA), MGM, and Lionsgate (LGF)—have been working to create a premium movie channel that would take on HBO, Showtime, and Starz (LMDIA). In a cable world where even the likes of the NFL have found it hard to get space on the dial, that's no easy trick. Early on, the studios, which had left Showtime when their contract renegotiation broke down, were counting on cable giant Comcast (CMCSA), America's largest cable company, which sources said initially contemplated becoming a partner as well. But Comcast has since lost interest. Now the three Hollywood studios are scrambling to find distribution partners—including offering "market exclusive" deals with satellite or telephone providers eager to steal subscribers from Comcast. "We're going to be flexible," says Mark Greenberg, the former Showtime executive who runs the venture, called Studio Three Partners. The channel, which its partners hope to launch in the fall of 2009, doesn't yet have a name.

Some critics have called the Chevrolet Volt, the electric car General Motors (GM) plans to sell in 2010, vaporware. Other skeptics have doubted the company could get the needed lithium-ion batteries ready for market by then. But in a play to show that GM will get beyond its current financial struggles and challenge Toyota (TM) in the technology game, Chairman and CEO G. Richard Wagoner Jr. showed the production version of the car at a 100th anniversary event for the automaker at its Detroit headquarters. "The Volt is symbolic of what GM is today—cutting-edge design and technology," he said.

The start of the week saw a banking earthquake, a Jet-Black Monday after a Black Sunday—at least for the financing sector. Monday's opening on Wall Street saw Bank of America stocks tumble 13 percent, and shares of Citigroup lose 6 percent of their value. Washington Mutual, America's largest savings bank, lost over 15 percent of its market value, and Switzerland's UBS dropped over 20 percent. The biggest loss by far was suffered by the American International Group (AIG); in a single day, America's largest insurance company lost almost half of its market value. The epicenter of the banking and market earthquake was in New York in the headquarters of a venerable banking establishment with German roots. On Monday morning, after a desperate fight for survival, Lehman Brothers, America's fourth-largest investment bank, declared bankruptcy. At the same time, people learned that Merrill Lynch—America's third-largest and likewise crippled investment bank—would be rescued by Bank of America.

Not many stocks were left standing when the Dow Jones industrial average crashed by 504 points on Sept. 15—the worst drop since the September 11 terrorist attacks. One stock that did stand firmly was Coca-Cola (KO), the world's largest soft drink company. When the tsunami-like wave of selling was done on that frenzied day, Coca-Cola's stock stood at 54.75, up from the previous session's closing price of 54.50. True, it was a razor-thin rise, but considering the devastation in the marketplace that day, just staying upright was a mighty accomplishment, as the financial giants lost some 20% to 94% of their value. Nonfinancials also got ravaged, including General Electric (GE), which tumbled 8.04%, ExxonMobil (XOM) 5.48%, Sprint Nextel (S) 5.70%, Intel (INTC) 3.97%, and Merck (MRK) 3.25%.

With nearly half of their revenues coming from banking and financial services segments, India's top software exporters today said they are closely monitoring the financial crisis spreading across markets. While Infosys and TCS, the country's two largest IT firms, said they do not comment on individual clients, the third largest IT firm in the country, Wipro said it was in dialouge with failed Lehman Brothers, although revenues from it were modest. The fourth largest software exporter from the country Satyam also said that it was "concerned" over the developments in the US. "We are very concerned about the recent development in the BFSI segment in the US. However, the Lehman Brothers episode will not have any impact on Satyam," Satyam Computer CFO Srinivas Vadlamani said. HCL Technologies, however, said that the two US majors—Lehman and Merrill Lynch—were not its clients and therefore would not have any fallout for the company.

The report, How technology sectors grow: Benchmarking IT industry competitiveness 2008 showed the economy jumped four spots from its previous ranking, to trail the United States, which topped the index for the second consecutive year. Tony Nash, EIU's Asia director for country and economic research, said Tuesday at a briefing in Singapore that Taiwan's strong performance in R&D (research and development) led to its improvement. In particular, it ranked top in the world in the area of patents, generating one patent for every 2,000 persons.

S&P REITERATES SELL RECOMMENDATION ON SHARES OF AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP  (AIG; 3.75): In an 11th-hour effort to stave off Chapter 11 filing, AIG secured an $85 billion bridge loan from the Federal Reserve. AIG reportedly has pledged all of its assets and will cede 80% of shareholders' equity to the Fed. Although we believe AIG has a number of valuable franchises, we continue to view the risk/reward for common shareholders as unattractive. Our $3 target price (cut $1) assumes the shares trade at 1 times our revised estimate of tangible book value, adjusting for the dilution from the Fed's action and our view of potential asset writedowns. -C. Seifert

Washington Mutual (WM) falls 0.31 to 2.01. The New York Times reports that WaMu has hired Goldman Sachs to look for buyers. Among the potential bidders that Goldman has talked to are Wells Fargo (WFC), JPMorgan Chase (JPM) and HSBC (HBC) -- but no buyers may materialize, says the Times. Earlier, S&P said it believes regulators may be concerned that WM's recent negative publicity will lead to depositors withdrawing funds from the bank. S&P shares these concerns, but at current levels thinks WM be attractive to potential suitors; it keeps hold opinion. Morgan Stanley (MS) falls Down 7.22 to 21.48. Morgan Stanley is considering a merger with Wachovia (WB), reports The New York Times.  In a memo reportedly released by MS, CEO Mack says "short sellers are driving our stock down."  In response to today's share price weakness, S&P equity analyst Matthew Albrecht believes MS and GS are under pressure because market believes these firms cannot remain independent. Still cautious on MS shares due to severe market disruption, numerous uncertainties. Keeps hold opinion on MS.  The company, announcing third quarter results ahead of schedule, posts better-than-expected $1.32, vs. $1.38 a year ago, third quarter EPS on 1.0% revenue rise. Notes non-interest expense rose 7%. Street was looking for $0.77.

Hurricane Ike slammed the Texas and Louisiana coasts on Sept. 13 and then rampaged across the Midwest, causing an estimated $16 billion in damages. Some 1.3 million barrels of daily oil production, already shut down because of Hurricane Gustav, stayed down. But oil traders shrugged that off, and futures prices continued their recent swift fall. Oil sank as low as $90.51 a barrel on Sept. 16 before firming a bit on Sept. 17. Traders are focusing on the bigger picture: Wall Street turmoil, economic gloom, and signs of dissension in OPEC. The Saudis have signaled that they don't feel bound by production cuts agreed to by the cartel on Sept. 10.

Small business owners who treat their employees as independent thinkers, regardless of level or role, are well-rewarded for their efforts. Many confuse leading with the more authoritarian aspects of parenting—they push, prod, punish, and praise in order to get things done. When you operate this way, your people become dependent, needing excessive supervision, hand-holding, and validation. Resist the temptation to tell your people what to do and how to do it. They will respond with greater autonomy and accountability and need less of your time and attention. 
David Peck
      President
      Leadership Unleashed
      Palm Springs, Calif.

The announcement came as a shock, especially with the financial markets in crisis: Hewlett-Packard (HPQ) said on Sept. 15 that it will cut 24,600 jobs. But here's the glass-half-full part: The cuts will come over three years in the process of integrating technology outsourcing outfit Electronic Data Systems (EDS). About half will come in the U.S. And HP said it would hire 12,000 workers over the same period as it beefs up its business of managing companies' IT needs. 
See "HP to Cut Nearly 25,000 Jobs"

Let’s be honest, short sellers will never win any popularity contests on Wall Street. It’s hard to warm-up to traders who make a killing when stock prices tumble. So that’s why short sellers have become such an easy and inviting target for regulators in the current financial crisis. But the Securities and Exchange’s Commission move to bank all short selling in some 800 financial stocks for the next 10 business day smacks of overill. That’s because the short interest—shares sold short in anticipation of a stock decline—in big financial stocks is really rather paltry compared to the number of outstanding shares in those securities. At the close of trading on Sept. 17, short interest as a percentage of shares outstanding was 2.5% in Goldman Sachs; 2.6% in Morgan Stanley and 1.3% in Citigroup, according to Bloomberg.

Here’s what’s next for the candidates to ponder: A big, but as-yet undefined, government fix. In a brief news conference this morning, Treasury’s Henry Paulson said that, whatever Congress and the Administration comes up with, “we’re talking hundreds of billions of dollars.” The Treasury and SEC both unveiled a variety of smaller measures today — among other things, Paulson said the Treasury would join Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in stepping up purchases of mortgage-backed securities in the market — but he made clear the main event would be whatever regulators and lawmakers cook up.

This week, we discuss what Wall Street’s crisis means for the technology sector and then goes on to address Hewlett-Packard’s big EDS-related layoffs. Also, very unfortunately for us, Catherine Holahan will be leaving the Dish and BW this week.

General Motors (GM) wrapped some steel around the hype it has generated for its Chevrolet Volt electric car on Sept. 16, when it rolled out the production version of the green machine at its 100th anniversary event in Detroit. The Volt will arrive in showrooms in late 2010. It will be able to go 40 miles on electric drive before a gasoline engine kicks in to recharge the battery. Some critics carped that the production model had lost some of the edgier styling that wowed the crowds at last year's Detroit Auto Show. 
See "GM Charges Up the Electric Chevy Volt"

Karo Bio AB is testing a novel cholesterol-lowering medicine that may make the Swedish biotechnology company attractive to product-hungry drugmakers Pfizer Inc. and AstraZeneca Plc. Pfizer Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Kindler said in a July 25 interview that he is seeking alliances with biotechnology companies to replace revenue lost when patent protection ends for Lipitor in 2011. AstraZeneca's experience marketing the cholesterol drug Crestor makes the London-based company another possible contender, said Polar Capital fund manager Daniel Mahony.

To some long term observers of the mortgage market, the rout on Wall Street isn’t just a shock, it’s absurb. Banks, hedge funds and other investors are dumping mortgage securities at fire sale prices, either because they have to get them off their balance sheet or because they’re just plain scared. But some of these investments now trade at riduculously low prices. Will a bond at 60 cents on the dollar come back? The housing market is bad but will 40% of all homeowners really default? If they do, how much will you really lose?
       “Our basic premise is that market pricing is unduly pessimistic,” says Tad Rivelle, who helps manage $27 billion in fixed income securities at Metropolitan West Asset Management in Los Angeles. “It does seem more of a run on the bank.”
          A study on MetWest’s Web site illlustrates the potential for recovery of your investment under various scenarious. Let’s say you own a first mortgage on a house that sold for $500,000. The owner defaults, you foreclose. The equity and second loans are wiped out. The house falls in value by 30% and you lose $50,000 in legal fees, interest and property taxes. You’re still going to recover $300,000 or 70% of your loan.
        Housing prices will be under pressure “for years,” Rivelle says. But the market has “discounted a severe amount of negative outcomes, massive foreclosures.” Believe it or not now may be just the time to be putting your money into mortgage bond funds.

Given the chaos that has assailed the world’s markets this week, it might seem a little crass to mention $300 trash cans. But the Danish firm Vipp held a swanky event in Manhattan last night, hosted by another of the country’s famous exports, supermodel Helena Christensen. Proceedings included an auction of Vipp bins customized by art/culture/design/music gurus such as Jenny Holzer, Karim Rashid and U2 front man, Bono, who contributed a bin (left) containing unpublished lyrics from the band’s new album and which sold for $30,000 (proceeds went to charity.) Before the auction, I chatted to VIPP President Kasper Egelund, about why now is in any way a good time to launch a line of super-expensive garbage cans in the U.S.

The numbers have gone so high that they’ve become inconceivable. Now Paulson and Bernanke are proposing a government fund or funds to buy up failed securities and prop up the financial system. The size of the bail-out funds: Roughly $1 trillion, give or take a few hundred billion. There’s going to be a lot of debate about the details of the funds. But here are the two real questions: Will this plan work? And will it avoid a deep recession? The short answers: Yes it will work, and no, a deep global recession is inevitable.

Billionaire investor Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc., which today agreed to buy Constellation Energy Group Inc., is increasing the pace of deals as debt markets freeze up and stocks fall. The deal to pay $4.7 billion for Constellation is Buffett's eighth acquisition announced since October, compared with six in the prior 12 months, when the largest was a $350 million purchase of an underwear and pajama company. Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire, which had $31.2 billion in cash on June 30, is acting as buyouts by competitors slow amid a worldwide credit crunch.

Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. and Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd. led declines in Asian financial stocks after Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. plunged in the U.S., fueling concern more financial firms will collapse. Sumitomo Mitsui, Japan's third-biggest bank by revenue, fell 8.2 percent to 572,000 yen, the lowest since February 2004, as of 2:22 p.m. in Tokyo. ICBC, China's biggest lender, dropped a record 12 percent to $HK3.54 in Hong Kong trading.

Polycom Inc.'s Bob Hagerty is ignoring a slowdown in demand and new competition from Cisco Systems Inc. by raising prices on his company's videoconferencing systems. ``Our markets are good, they continue to grow and we have a business that's based in real productivity improvement,'' the 56-year-old chief executive officer said in an interview last week. ``People are still concerned with the cost of travel.''

Lot of news in the last 24 hours. Here’s a link to our story on the government’s new RTC-style bailout plan, and how the campaigns are reacting. And here’s more on the problems at the SEC and why John McCain is calling for Chris Cox to be fired.

Australia's benchmark stock index slumped to an almost three-year low as the U.S. government's takeover of American International Group Inc. deepened concern about the global financial system. Macquarie Group Ltd., Australia's biggest investment bank, fell by a record 23 percent to its lowest since May 2003 after U.S. financial stocks tumbled. Babcock & Brown Ltd., an infrastructure manager, slumped 17 percent to a record low, as bank lending seized up in the wake of the AIG takeover and investors worried that more financial companies will fail.

Corporate bond default risk rose to records in the Asia-Pacific region on speculation Morgan Stanley and HBOS Plc are in merger or acquisition talks, raising concerns more financial companies will follow Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. into bankruptcy. Credit-default swap indexes in Australia and Asia outside Japan traded at all-time highs, following rises in default protection costs on Wall Street firms to a record in New York yesterday. Default swaps rise as perceptions of credit quality deteriorate.

The following companies may have unusual price changes in central European markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are from the last close. The NTX Index of 30 companies in the region fell 2.1 percent to 1,366.46. Austria's ATX Index lost 4.5 percent, the Czech PX Index rose 1.7 percent and Hungary's BUX Index dropped 3.8 percent. Poland's WIG20 Index lost less than 0.1 percent.

The following companies may have unusual price changes in Canadian trading today. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are from the previous close. The Standard & Poor's/TSX Composite Index fell 2.9 percent to 11,877.69 yesterday in Toronto. Canada's main equity benchmark extended its decline from a June 18 record to 21 percent, entering a bear market.

Macquarie Group Ltd., Australia's largest investment bank, plunged by a record in Sydney trading on concern the global credit crisis will affect its ability to repay debt. Macquarie fell 23 percent and Babcock & Brown Ltd., the nation's second-biggest investment company, slumped 17 percent.

Bank of Ireland Plc fell in Dublin trading for a seventh day after Goodbody Stockbrokers cut its earnings estimates for the country's second-biggest lender on concern a cooling economy will boost bad debts. Bank of Ireland fell as much as 10 percent to 3.55 euros and was at 3.78 euros ($5.62) at 3:05 p.m. in Dublin trading. Goodbody cut its fiscal 2009 earnings per share estimate by 16 percent to 98 euro cents and its 2010 estimate by 55 percent to 39 cents.

Manchester United's shirts read AIG. They might as well say U.S.A. The U.S. government's $85 billion takeover of American International Group Inc. gave it control of United's shirt sponsorship, one of the most visible in sports after the team won two of soccer's biggest club championships last season.

European banks and insurers announced potential losses tied to the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. of about $7.3 billion. Dexia SA, the world's biggest lender to local governments, said today it may log a potential loss of 350 million euros ($505 million) from Lehman-related assets, adding it now expects ``no material losses'' from 1.5 billion-euros of collateralized assets it has with the bankrupt U.S. securities firm.

Steve Case, the co-founder and former chief executive officer of America Online Inc., didn't use illegal insider information when he bought a Hawaii land company in 2000, a federal judge decided. U.S. District Judge Robert Jones yesterday ruled in favor of Case in a lawsuit accusing him of insider trading in the $26 million purchase of Grove Farm Co., a former sugar plantation that owns 22,000 acres on the Hawaiian island of Kauai.

Despite the recent relief on oil and gas prices, car buyers today are increasingly looking to trade their vehicles for ones that are more fuel-efficient. Such an exercise involves a lot of time comparing vehicles online, as well as self-examination to determine what we can do without, what we need to have, and what we can live with.

ITV Plc, the U.K.'s largest commercial broadcaster, agreed to buy rights to highlights of the England soccer team's away World Cup qualifying matches from satellite broadcaster Setanta Sports. The contract will allow ITV to show free-to-air highlights shortly after the conclusion of England's matches against Belarus and Ukraine next month and Kazakhstan in June, Setanta said in an e-mailed press release today. It didn't give any financial terms.

The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K. media. Newcastle Manager

Japan's gasoline demand fell the most in five years in August, when consumption of the motor fuel traditionally peaks, as pump prices soared to a record. Sales of the fuel slumped about 10 percent last month compared with a year earlier after prices rose to an all-time high, Akihiko Tembo, chairman of Japan's Petroleum Association, said today. The trade ministry is expected to issue August's gasoline consumption data at the end of September.

Suddenly, stodgy banks are looking smart. And with former Wall Street giants toppling almost daily, some European banks are starting to look especially wise. European banks are holding up pretty well amid the turmoil sweeping the industry. None of the Old World's biggest banks appears likely to fail or put itself on the block, analysts say. Indeed, the Europeans are more likely to be buying: London-based Barclays (BCS) on Sept. 17 inked a $1.75 billion cash deal to buy the investment banking and trading businesses of bankrupt Lehman Brothers.

The past week's madness in the financial markets kicked off with the Lehman Brothers (LEH) bankruptcy. Then came the AIG (AIG) bailout. Now there's an apparent war against short-sellers. After tense lobbying by financial company CEOs who blamed short-sellers for the massive drops in their stock prices, Christopher Cox, chairman of the Securities & Exchange Commission (SEC), announced on Sept. 17 new rules to curb "naked short-selling," which involves selling a stock without first borrowing it and is illegal. (A short sale is a bet that a stock price will fall by selling borrowed stock and then repurchasing it later at a lower price for a profit.) The same day, Morgan Stanley (MS) CEO John Mack sent a memo to employees: "We're in the midst of a market controlled by fear and rumors, and short-sellers are driving our stock down. You should know that the Management Committee and I are taking every step possible to stop this irresponsible action in the market."

Not since the 412's demise in 1989 had Ferrari offered a 2+2, and when the 456 GT debuted at the Paris Salon in October 1992, it was obvious that the long-awaited newcomer eclipsed all Maranello's previous four-seat Grand Tourers. Although new from stem to stern, the 456 GT incorporated elements familiar to generations of Ferrari cognoscenti—front-mounted 4-cam V12, rear transaxle, tubular steel spaceframe chassis, and all-independent suspension—while making an appearance for the first time were electronically-controlled adaptive suspension and a 6-speed gearbox (there was also an optional automatic).

RBC DOWNGRADES PROLOGIS TO SECTOR PERFORM FROM OUTPERFORM RBC analyst Dave Rodgers says, while Prologis (PLD) remains a driving force in global industrial development and fund management, he sees little opportunity near term. He says the shares are likely to gap down sharply at the open, but thinks buyers should be cautious as additional challenges lie ahead for this sector overall.

In times of crisis, perspective helps. With the staggering financial events of the past week, business schools have been called upon by the public, businesses, and policymakers to help give historical background and guidance in what many observers consider to be uncharted and frightening economic territory. As the year-old crisis reached a more acute stage this month, business schools began fielding a legion of requests from the media for explanation. At the same time, faculty members were busy talking to companies where they consult or serve as board members about the implications for their businesses.

This impressive estate in the heart of Russian River is part of the treasure trove of great estates owned by Jess Jackson's boutique operation, often referred to as Artisans & Estates. The property is managed by Jackson's son-in-law, Don Hartford, who has an impressive track record of hiring top winemakers, and producing superb zinfandels, pinot noirs, and chardonnays. I first became excited by the Hartford wines when the talented Mike Sullivan was there, and he has been replaced by another terrific winemaker, Jeff Mangahas. Of course, the most important aspect is terroir, and this winery owns some of the finest cool climate sites in the Russian River, Green Valley, and Sonoma Coast. Here are some of their current and up-coming releases, all of which are sensational wines that, by North Coast standards, remain realistically priced. 
90 points 2005 Pinot Noir Hailey's Block Arrendell Vineyard (Green Valley, Russian River)

The term “moral hazard” has been thrown around a lot lately. The gist of its meaning in today’s financial markets: Once the government starts bailing out companies and investors, they start to count on it — and take bigger risks as a result. The federal government tried to nip that expectation in the bud Monday when it let Lehman file for bankruptcy. Then it bailed out AIG. Now, the American Bankers Association maintains, the Treasury is at it again. But they’re not talking about the vague plan to do something really big that Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson mentioned this morning.

Corporate benefits executives by a wide margin prefer Senator Barack Obama's health-care reform proposal, which would compel all employers to offer health insurance, over Senator John McCain's proposed repeal of the tax exclusion for employer–based health coverage, according to a newly released survey. Bottom line, however: Benefits officers aren't wild about either option. The Washington law firm Miller & Chevalier Chartered, together with the American Benefits Council, a trade association, surveyed 187 benefits officers this summer at large U.S. companies to determine their views on the direction of health-care policy in 2009. The respondents were asked their opinion of several health-care reform proposals, without identifying the reforms with any candidate or political party. When asked about "pay or play," the position favored by Obama that would require employers to either provide health care for employees (play) or pay a tax to the government, 46% of respondents said it would have a strong negative effect on their workforce. But 74% said a repeal of the employee tax exemption for employer-based health coverage—McCain's proposal—would have a strong negative effect.

It wasn't too many years ago that some federal regulators fretted about the dangers of letting commercial banks merge with the big investment houses on Wall Street. But in the current financial crisis, those mergers might be the only thing that saves some of Wall Street's most storied firms, such as Morgan Stanley (MS) and a troubled lender like Washington Mutual (WM). With Lehman Brothers (LEH) now history, panicked Wall Street investors continued to sell off shares in both Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs (GS), despite the fact that both firms reported relatively strong earnings in recent days. Morgan Stanley's shares plunged 24% on Sept. 17, and lost another 18% in mid-day trading on Sept. 18, as investors worried the white-shoe firm would suffer the same liquidity crisis that felled Lehman and threatened Merrill Lynch (MER). At first, Morgan Stanley executives rushed to condemn the short-sellers they said were driving the sell-off. In a memo to employees (BusinessWeek.com, 9/17/08), Morgan CEO John Mack expressed his view that the firm was "in the midst of a market controlled by fear and rumors, and short-sellers are driving our stock down."

Rolling Stone lead singer Mick Jagger visited the European Commission on Wednesday (17 September) for a roundtable discussion on online retailing with competition commissioner Neelie Kroes and internal market commissioner Charlie McCreevy. The original "street-fightin' man" no longer needs to throw cobblestones to get the attention of the centres of power like his 1968 incarnation. These days he is warmly invited to the top floors of the commission building for a friendly chat with Europe's competition guardian and a host of key figures in the business of commerce on the web.

UK HBOS                     Up GBP0.25 to GBP1.72... Agrees to LloydsTSB takeover, FSA satisfied - LloydsTSB is buying Co. for GBP12.2bn. Shareholders will receive 0.83 Lloyds shares for each share they hold. The FSA says is satisfied Co. is well-capitalized bank that continues to fund its business in a satisfactory way. Welcomes takeover by LloydsTSB as it is likely to enhance stability within financial markets and improve confidence among customers and investors in the UK financial sector.    Panmure upgrades to buy from sell, lowers target to GBP2.32 (the Lloyds bid price) from GBP2.50.

Money, money everywhere, but no one wants to lend. Global markets continued to feel the effects of a liquidity squeeze, as yield spreads extended to record wide levels and interbank lending slowed to a crawl. The squeeze prompted the Federal Reserve, along with other central banks from Europe and Asia, to step in with a coordinated plan to bolster liquidity on Sept. 18. Also the same day, reports on weekly initial jobless claims and the Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank's index of economic conditions for September gave some clues about the health of the U.S. economy. What to make of all this? Here is a sampling of reaction from investment strategists and market economists on Sept. 18, as compiled by BusinessWeek and Standard & Poor's MarketScope staff:

The long, painful process of forced liquidation of assets by Fannie Mae (FNM) and Freddie Mac (FRE), Lehman Brothers Holdings (LEH), and American International Group (AIG) is just beginning, but already market observers are trying to figure out where the vulture capitalists who typically swoop in to take advantage of such distress are training their attention. Investors in distressed assets know from experience that it's better to wait until the cycle matures a bit before stepping in to buy anything, says Jeffrey R. Manning, managing director at Trenwith Securities, a Costa Mesa (Calif.)-based boutique investment firm that offers advice to companies going through bankruptcy.

Mortgage lending sunk to a three year low during August with just £21.8 billion advanced, the Council of Mortgage Lenders said today. The CML blamed the slump on the "exceptionally low" housing market turnover, which has seen transactions drop by around 50 per cent compared with last year.

The German Finance Ministry declared itself shocked—shocked!—on Wednesday at the news that a state lending bank, KfW, had transferred €300 million ($426 million) to Lehman Brothers in New York on Monday, just after the investment bank collapsed. "What we have had to read today is astonishing and exasperating," Finance Ministry spokesman Torsten Albig told reporters. "We expect a swift explanation of such a technical failure, which is inexplicable to us."

Just over a quarter century ago, Saab showed the first four-seater convertible to the world, creating a new class of luxury automobile. Now it's set to do it all over again with the 9-X Air concept car and a visually-distinctive newly-designed Canopy Top designed to aerodynamically cocoon the passenger cell. The design incorporates prominent raked rear pillars that curve upwards to mount a flat folding roof—essentially a development of the Targo roof principle—with a separate rear screen located between them. Instead of having a manually detachable roof section, the Saab Canopy top is fully powered in operation and folds away in the storage trunk. With the top down motorists can enjoy open-top motoring free from buffeting, and with the top up the 9-X Air assumes the appearance of a true coupe. Saab has filed a patent on the convertible roof design and hence the 9-X Air provides a glimpse of what a future convertible from Saab could look like. The clean, sculpted body contours of the 9-X Air give fresh expression to Saab's Scandinavian-inspired design ethos and its aircraft heritage. The purposeful stance, with minimal overhangs front and rear, is complemented by a single, wraparound window graphic, smooth uncluttered body surfaces and 'ice block' lighting themes.

Economic reports will be of secondary interest to the markets this week, as investors try to sort through the implications of the historic events of the past few days. The attention will be on the markets themselves, the Federal Reserve and other central banks, and Washington lawmakers. Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke will command center stage at least twice this week when he testifies before Congress, first on Wednesday before the Joint Economic Committee about the economic outlook, and then on Thursday with Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson in front of the House Financial Services Committee about the takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Bernanke and Paulson will offer insights into the Fed’s and Treasury’s thinking on the current market situation, how the events will affect the economy, and the rationale for the wave of government takeovers of financial institutions.

S&P MAINTAINS HOLD RECOMMENDATION ON SHARES OF MORGAN STANLEY (MS; 21.75): An unconfirmed report in the Wall Street Journal says that MS is in talks with Wachovia Corp. (WB; 9.10) about a possible merger. Separately, an unconfirmed story from CNBC reports that MS may also be considering other merger partners and may be in talks with an outside investor to sell a minority stake, highlighting its desire to ultimately stay independent. We think all options should be on the table now and the board should be open to any outcome that preserves shareholder value. We expect a volatile day of trading, and would hold positions in MS. -M. Albrecht

As Congressional staffers met with Treasury and Fed officials over the weekend to begin working out the details of the proposed plan for the government to ease the strains on the banking system by buying up toxic mortgage-related assets that are behind the credit crunch, a few more details emerged. According to a three page outline of the plan prepared by the Treasury, they would like authorization to buy up $700 billion in assets; that’s on top of the roughly $200 billion that could be spent shoring up Fannie and Freddie and the $85 billion for AIG. All of which raises huge questions about how the facility will be structured, who will benefit, and what the implications are for the incoming Adminstration. The only certainty? Two months ago, in a story examining why neither of the two candidates’ economic plans add up, we wrote about the severe budgetary and political constraints that either McCain or Obama will face come January; now, those constraints will be far worse. With a budget deficit that looks like it could surpass $1 trillion next year, whichever of the two is elected will face an even tougher time funding his spending and tax cut plans. The enormous spending required for the bailouts will force each to confront tough questions about which of his priorities can still be funded, and which will have to fall by the wayside. Big spending on new health care, or big new tax cuts, are likely to go first. There are plenty of other more short-term questions about the bailout that Congress, the Administration, and the candidates will have to face in the coming week, too. Among the key issues:

The Federal Reserve will intervene in markets for commercial paper and U.S. agency debt after money-market mutual funds holding the securities experienced record withdrawals, threatening intensified financial-market turmoil. The Fed will extend emergency loans to banks to purchase ``high-quality'' asset-backed commercial paper from money market funds, the central bank said today in a statement in Washington. The Fed will also buy short-term discount notes issued by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Home Loan Banks from Wall Street dealers. Neither program has a set limit.

When TBS International Ltd. got the job of moving a 239-ton paper mill from Hamburg to Colombia, the cargo ship owner marshaled a fleet of barges and trucks for the final 503 miles (810 kilometers) up a tropical river and overland to the Andes city of Medellin. ``If the machinery was damaged, it wouldn't work,'' said Raul Hernandez, chief of parts and services purchases for TBS customer Kimberly-Clark Corp. in Colombia. ``It would have taken another year to get a replacement. Even though TBS charges more, it was worth it.''

Billionaire Stanley Druckenmiller withdrew from bidding for the Pittsburgh Steelers after his offer for the National Football League franchise was rejected, the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette reported on its Web site. The decision by four Rooney brothers, who each own 16 percent, doesn't mean a sale will be made to oldest brother and team Chairman Dan Rooney, the newspaper said, citing unidentified sources familiar with the situation. They may seek other bids, it said.

The following companies had unusual price changes in Canadian trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are as of 5 p.m. in Toronto. The Standard & Poor's/TSX Composite Index jumped 848.42, or 7 percent, to 12,912.99, the most in more than 20 years.

The following companies are having unusual price changes in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are as of 2 p.m. in New York. Financial companies jumped after the U.S. Treasury and Federal Reserve announced efforts to halt the credit-market seizure and British and American regulators cracked down on short sellers.

China has found the toxic chemical melamine in liquid milk and yogurt from the nation's biggest producers, broadening a scandal in the country's $19 billion dairy industry. Batches made by China Mengniu Dairy Co., Inner Mongolia Yili Industrial Group Co. and Bright Dairy & Food Co., the country's top three dairy producers by value, contained melamine, the Chinese quality watchdog said, adding to a list of infant formulas already known to be tainted.

Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc helped Gary Mulgrew, one of the imprisoned British bankers known as the ``NatWest 3,'' hide assets from his ex-wife in their divorce case, according to a lawsuit filed in a U.S. court. The U.K.'s second-largest bank, which acquired NatWest in 2000, ``aided and abetted'' Mulgrew by refusing to provide information about his assets to former spouse Laura Murray, she said in the complaint. Mulgrew has more than $16.5 million in assets and owes $128,345 in child support, according to the filing.

Billionaire Stan Kroenke has never much enjoyed the limelight. In ninth grade, during a basketball tournament in central Missouri, Kroenke's coach tapped him to shoot a free throw for a technical foul. Normally a deadeye shot, Kroenke was unnerved to be playing in front of so many fans. "My knees were knocking," he recalls. "I missed the free throw and was useless the whole tournament." Thirty-two years later, in 1993, all eyes were on Kroenke again when he emerged as a lead investor and the public face of St. Louis' ultimately failed bid to win an National Football League expansion franchise. Kroenke was by then a hugely successful shopping-center developer, his career catapulted by his marriage into the Walton family of Wal-Mart Stores (WMT) fame. He thought he could handle the media scrum. He couldn't. Sportswriters panned his somnambulant performance. "I was somewhat naive—not in a business sense, but as far as the whole public side of it," Kroenke recalls. Kroenke's response? Forget the public side of it. Build an empire privately. Amass an impressive array of assets—retail centers, pro sports teams, sports arenas, a cable TV channel—and weave them together. And speak to the media rarely, if at all, thus earning the sobriquet "Silent Stanley." Today, sports fans outside Denver may have no clue who he is. But Enos Stanley Kroenke (pronounced KRON-key), 61, is widely admired by fellow moguls as well as by a BusinessWeek panel of experts, who voted him among the most influential people in the business of sports in the magazine's soon-to-be-published Power 100 special report. While some of Kroenke's teams have reached the pinnacle—football's St. Louis Rams in 2000 and the Colorado Avalanche of the National Hockey League in 2001—a championship in the sport he loves most, basketball, has so far eluded his Denver Nuggets, perennial underachievers who have lost in the first round of the National Basketball Assn. playoffs five years running. This eats at Kroenke, whose competitive fire belies his shyness. "I always had a dream to someday own an NBA team," he says. "Uncle Sam always said to find something you like to do and try to be really good at it." Uncle Sam would be Sam Walton, who founded Wal-Mart in 1962 with younger brother Bud, whose daughter Ann met Stan on a Colorado ski trip in 1971. Sam and Bud took a special liking to their future son-in-law and invited Kroenke along on bird-hunting trips during which the Walton brothers would visit potential Wal-Mart sites. Kroenke watched the master merchants at work and soon went into the business of building shopping centers. Today, Kroenke's THF Realty is one of the top 20 retail developers in the nation. Although his first stab in sports didn't work out in St. Louis, he succeeded the second time by quietly snatching a stake in the Rams in 1995. But his signature deal was the $400 million purchase of Denver's Pepsi Center, plus the Nuggets and Avalanche in 2000. (The acquisition also created some family tension, as an earlier bid from Kroenke's brother-in-law, Bill Laurie, fizzled.) Since then, Kroenke has purchased the famed Napa Valley winery Screaming Eagle, gobbled up cattle ranches (including one previously owned by CEO-turned-convict Bernie Ebbers), acquired a 12% stake in British soccer club Arsenal, and launched his own regional sports network, Altitude. Altitude was a logical step, but a risky one. Colorado already had a regional sports network, but Kroenke saw advantages to gaining the trifecta of teams, arenas, and the primary conduit to at-home fans. It's the classic case of eliminating the middleman. But successful sports networks need year-round programming, and without baseball, Altitude has a huge hole in its lineup for much of the summer. Kroenke's stake in Arsenal, meanwhile, has less risk and more upside. There, Kroenke is following a path blazed by American sports moguls such as Malcolm Glazer (Manchester United) and Randy Lerner (Aston Villa). The economic rationale behind English Premier League soccer is that it's much more of a winner-take-all model than, say, the NFL, which splits the revenue pot equally. What's next for Kroenke? He reportedly mulled a stake in a new professional cricket league emerging in India. That didn't pan out, but given the amount of time he's spending in Asia and Europe, it's likely that his next big investment will take place far from the Mile High City. "Economics is about creating win-win situations," Kroenke says. "But in sports, someone loses." Win or lose, Kroenke's escalating clout is making it tougher and tougher for him to dodge the public eye.

Konecranes Oyj, which makes one tenth of the world's cranes, rose the most since it started trading 12 years ago after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. upgraded it to ``buy'' from ``neutral.'' The Hyvinkaeae, Finland-based company jumped 20 percent to close at 20.26 euros, the most since its initial public offering in March 1996. The cranemaker was the second-leading gainer in the OMX Helsinki 25 Index, which rose 9.7 percent.

The following is a list of companies whose stocks may have unusual changes in Paris. Symbols are in parentheses after company names and prices are from the last close. September futures on France's CAC 40 Index surged 190 to 4,148 at 8:07 a.m. in Paris.

The following companies had unusual price changes in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are as of 4 p.m. in New York. Financial companies jumped after the U.S. Treasury and Federal Reserve announced efforts to halt the credit-market seizure and British and American regulators cracked down on short sellers.











































































We now know the first version of the big bailout plan. It gives Paulson virtually unlimited authority to buy and sell up to $700 billion in residential and commercial mortgages, and related securities. Right now the proposal is focused on U.S.-headquartered financial institutions, but that could expand. So the question now is: Who wins? Who loses? What is the real impact of the plan?

Late last week investors cheered the news that the federal government was racing to put together a massive $700 billion bailout package for the financial system. A huge two-day rally in the stock market nearly wiped out all of last week’s declines and almost made investors forget Lehman’s bankruptcy filing, Merrill’s shotgun marriage with Bank of America and the government’s defacto takeover of insurance giant AIG. But now that the Bush administration has finally presented its plan for saving Wall Street from its past mistakes, there are some serious questions legislators need to ask themselves before rushing to enact the measure.

A few weeks ago, I blogged about how we’re going to have to optimize ourselves so that machines can better understand us. After blogging, I taped a commentary for APM’s Marketplace show, and promptly forgot about. They played it on Friday night, and I quickly heard from friends all over the country. It’s amazing how many people hear that show. I’ll put the text under the fold (the part you have to click again to see.) I was also on WNYC’s Leonard Lopate show for 40 minutes on Friday. And Time Magazine, while giving the book a nice review, suggested to my annoyance that readers merely “skim” it. Of course, they could have recommended “tossing” it. So I shouldn’t complain. I’ll be in Washington, Boston and Portland this coming week. Hope to see some of you there. Schedule details are on TheNumerati.net.

David Di Michele scored two goals as West Ham beat Newcastle 3-1, giving Gianfranco Zola a victory in his first game as manager of the Premier League soccer club. Arsenal won at Bolton 3-1 to take over first place in the standings. Liverpool tied 0-0 with Stoke, Sunderland defeated Middlesbrough 2-0 and Blackburn beat Fulham 1-0.

Mardy Fish and Mike Bryan, playing their first match as double partners, beat Feliciano Lopez and Fernando Verdasco in five sets to keep the U.S. in the Davis Cup semifinals against Spain. The Americans won 4-6, 6-4, 6-3, 4-6, 6-4 on a specially made clay tennis court at Madrid's Las Ventas bullring, making it 2-1 in the best-of-five series. Russia also won a five-set doubles match to fight off elimination in the other semifinal with Argentina.

Corporate borrowing costs fell for the first time in almost two weeks amid U.S. government plans to stem the collapse of confidence in the financial markets. Morgan Stanley led a rally in bonds yesterday that included General Electric Co. and Charter Communications Inc. The gains were sparked by optimism that Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke's proposal to remove troubled assets from banks is re-opening debt markets.

U.K. two-year government notes fell for the first time in five days, paring a weekly gain, as central banks' efforts to calm financial markets sapped investor demand for the safest assets. The decline pushed the two-year yield up from the lowest level in five months as U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke proposed shifting troubled assets off American banks' balance sheets and U.K. regulators banned short sales of financial shares for the rest of the year. Stocks surged around the world, with Britain's benchmark FTSE 100 Index jumping the most since the measure started in 1984.

Given that Bernanke and Paulson are about to socialize risk in the financial system, it’s time to bring back the cover image from earlier this year—Bernanke as Lenin.

As an entrepreneur, you are at your best when you are in sync with your "core purpose." Depending on your beliefs, this could be what you are best or most talented at doing, or what you think you were meant to do in this life. Clarity about your core purpose guides you through peaceful and turbulent times—and it also reduces the stress and anxiety of trying to be something you’re not. Boil down what always seems important to you into a one-sentence statement of core purpose, then revise it over time until it describes who you are at your very best. 
David Peck
      President
      Leadership Unleashed
      Palm Springs, Calif.

In a move that is emblematic of how fragile the U.S. automakers are right now, GM says it will bypass Super Bowl XLIII in February. GM has been a mainstay of the big game for fifteen years. It has already pulled pulled out of last night’s Emmy Awards and it won’t be in the 2009 Academy Awards. These are all “appointment TV” venues where GM has always been with ads for new products.

The Big Bailout: Measuring the Aftershocks

Goldman Sachs analyst Patrick Archambault put a “sell” rating on General Motors today after GM said late Friday that it was drawing down the remaining $3.5bn of its $4.5bn revolver line of credit. The draw comes ahead of significant cash outflows, said Archambault,  such as a $750mn debt maturity in October and more than $1.2bn in cash payments to Delphi. The company also announced it had completed a $322mn debt exchange for 28.3mn shares. Archambault: “We had previously thought GM might draw down the secured revolver by year-end in the absence of any alternative funding source. Given the uncertainty facing US financial institutions at present, we think securing the additional liquidity is understandable. However, we see the liquidity draw as a net negative, as it suggests that GM itself sees limited funding options in the near future, despite the unprecedented Fed and Treasury actions being contemplated.  On our current estimates GM will need to raise $8bn in cash to keep its balance within the $11-$14bn range it needs to operate. As we have previously highlighted, we expect GM to obtain additional liquidity from a $25bn Federal loan package for the sector that we think will be appropriated at the end of the current legislative session.  The recently announced Treasury proposal to buy distressed assets complicates an already confusing political situation for the auto loan program, but the likelihood of funding remains fairly high in our view. This would be positive, but GM would need to raise additional capital in our view, or seek more union concessions and/or dilutive alternatives like debt for equity swaps on a much larger scale than the $322mn announced on Friday.

Chelsea substitute Salomon Kalou scored with 10 minutes remaining as the Blues drew 1-1 against Manchester United in English soccer's Premier League to protect coach Luiz Felipe Scolari's unbeaten record. Chelsea, which last suffered a league defeat at its Stamford Bridge stadium in February 2004, had trailed to Ji-Sung Park's 18th-minute opener.

Stovall: Financials Find a Friend in the Feds

The following is a list of companies whose shares may rise or fall in Australia. This preview includes news announced after markets closed on Friday. Prices are from Friday's close unless otherwise stated. The S&P/ASX 200 Index futures contract due in December gained 2.8 percent to 4,928 at 6:59 a.m. in Sydney. The Bank of New York Australia ADR Index surged 8.6 percent in New York.

Rafael Nadal beat Andy Roddick as Spain eliminated the defending champion U.S. team and earned a place in the Davis Cup tennis final. Nadal won 6-4, 6-0, 6-4 on a clay court at Madrid's Las Ventas bullring to give Spain an unassailable lead in the semifinal. Feliciano Lopez made it 4-1 by beating Sam Querrey 7-6 (7-3), 7-6 (7-4) in a shortened final match.

``Lakeview Terrace,'' the thriller starring Samuel L. Jackson, opened as the top film at U.S. and Canadian theaters, collecting $15.6 million for Sony Corp. The film unseated last week's top picture, ``Burn After Reading,'' from directors Joel and Ethan Coen, which was second with $11.3 million. ``My Best Friend's Girl'' opened in third place with $8.3 million for Lions Gate Entertainment Corp., box- office tracker Media By Numbers LLC said today in a statement.

For years now, digital photo frames have struggled to reach the mass market. I know exactly why, because I’ve not bought one: I don’t want to spend $200 on a gadget that only displays videos and photos, even if it can access Picasa online. Well, photo frames are about to get more useful and turn into full-fledged Internet appliances, competing with the home PC, TV and mobile for users’ time and attention. AT&T’s new HomeManager product, announced today, is a 7-inch photo frame that also offers e-mail access, visual voice mail and home phone calling (check out this page for an online demo). The gadget costs $299 if you sign up for several AT&T services, and it’s available in select cities, like Chicago and Atlanta.

Rafael Nadal beat Andy Roddick to eliminate the defending champion U.S. team and earn Spain a place in the Davis Cup tennis final. Top-ranked Nadal won 6-4, 6-0, 6-4 on a clay court before 20,000 fans at Madrid's Las Ventas bullring to give the host an unassailable 3-1 lead in the best-of-five semifinal.

The following is the line-up for the final day's singles matches at the 37th Ryder Cup at the Valhalla Golf Club in Louisville, Kentucky. The U.S., seeking to end a three-match losing streak at golf's premier team event, leads Europe by 9 points to 7 after two days of four-ball and foursomes matches.

Qantas Airways Ltd., Australia's largest carrier, took delivery of its first A380 aircraft after the plane landed in Sydney today. The plane left Airbus SAS headquarters in Toulouse, France on Sept. 19 headed for Sydney, configured with 450 seats in four cabins, Sydney-based Qantas said in a statement that day.

I’ve always wanted to live an “interesting life” and the journey has taken me to fascinating places. So I’m changing titles. For the next year and perhaps beyond, I’ll be at The New School, working with President Bob Kerrey (yes, the Senator), provost Joe Westphal, Parson’s dean Tim Marshall and a group of terrific professors and wonderful students from around the world, designing new programs, learning experiences, and research projects. The New School has always been on the edge and it’s culture just feels right for me. I’ll be fitting into efforts already under way to build new areas in managing creating, social innovation, urban sustainability and more. Parsons, of course, is a leader in fashion design and is strong in design management and strategy (that’s where my office will be.

The U.S. will take a two-point lead over Europe into the final day of the 37th Ryder Cup, while golf's strongest player sits at home sending messages of support. After jumping out to a 5 1/2 - 2 1/2 lead on the opening day, the U.S. won two matches, lost three and tied three yesterday to hold a 9-7 lead at the Valhalla Golf Club in Louisville, Kentucky.

After years of financial mismanagement, it took less than two weeks for the markets to come unglued. Now, Congress and the Bush Administration are trying to pass a fix within the week. But with the clock ticking and lobbyists circling, big questions remain. A brief proposal sent to Congress by the Treasury Dept.—with a request for action before Congress adjourns on Sept. 26—would authorize the Treasury to buy up to $700 billion of toxic mortgage-related assets and gradually resell them, with few strings attached. That is roughly what the U.S. has spent to prosecute the war in Iraq to date, and nearly $2,300 for every man, woman, and child in the country. Added to the $200 billion that could go toward shoring up Fannie Mae (FNM) and Freddie Mac (FRE), and the $85 billion the government has pledged to acquire most of insurance giant American International Group (AIG), the potential price tag for taxpayers soars to near $1 trillion. That's just under half what the country spends annually on health care.

I don’t need to repeat the facts behind last week’s financial turbulence - from Lehman Brothers to Merrill Lynch to AIG and beyond.  To paraphrase Jon Stewart, it’s a good thing the audience can’t see me cry during the commercial breaks.  Beyond the obvious coverage in the Wall Street Journal, Business Week, The Economist and the Financial Times, a few of the sites I’ve found insightful are Seeking Alpha and the Prudent Bear. Watching the carnage on Wall Street has been a spectator sport for most of us in the VC and start-up community.  The rough going our investment banking cousins are experiencing has caused us to put down our popcorn and soft drinks and ask ourselves:  how am I impacted?  What will all this mean to the entrepreneurial economy?

by the Associated Press MUMBAI, India—Mukesh Ambani, one of the world's richest men, held a large beaker of greenish sludge in his hands, the first drops of light sweet crude that his company, Reliance Industries, has pulled from deep beneath the Bay of Bengal.

China Shenhua Energy Co. and PT Astra International are among 10 Asian stocks likely to double within three years because of higher profit growth and stronger balance sheets, Goldman, Sachs & Co. said. The shares have fallen by an average 46 percent from their 52-week highs and have ``attractive'' valuations relative to their 10-year history, Goldman Sachs's Hong Kong analysts including Paul Bernard wrote in a note to clients today. The shares were subject to ``indiscriminate selling'' in the global rout that drove a measure of Asian stocks outside Japan to the lowest in more than two years last week, the analysts said.

More skepticism about the Paulson plan from David Cay Johnston, directed toward journalists: You know, I’ve wondered that too.

I know everyone is obsessed with financial collapse, but here’s a change of pace. I will be on a panel at a conference on Innovation Economics in DC on Thursday. At least I can throw a small beam of optimism on the future.

Here’s a story about the expected slowdown in the ad market that Catherine Holahan wrote and I helped with. Basically, as we met with ad folks last week ahead of Advertising Week, we kept hearing the same refrain. Tough times are coming, particularly for the areas, such as mobile and social networking, where brands are still experimenting and the ad models are still works in progress. It was a frank assessment from an industry that has been arguing that it will be immune to any ad slowdown.

Businesses of all sizes are faced with fierce marketplace pressures. Leaders try to get their people to do more, while available resources are scaled back in the name of productivity and financial belt-tightening. As a result, many places are becoming "burnout organizations," where workers feel more like office equipment than human beings. To avoid this, ask yourself how you might place a higher priority on touching your people’s lives in a positive way, every day—particularly when you are making difficult choices. Not only does this make sense on a spiritual and ethical level; it creates a workplace that enables you to attract and retain the best people. 
David Peck
      President
      Leadership Unleashed
      Palm Springs, Calif.

Barry Ritholtz of the Big Picture Blog has 14 questions for Paulson and Bernanke. I’ve excerpted from his list. Interesting questions. I’d like to know the answers too.

While many eyes are trained on Mountain View for the official release of the new G1/Android phone from Google and T-Mobile, I got an insight into Google’s design process from the company’s VP of Product Management, Sundar Pichai, and Group Product Manager, Brian Rakowski. These two spearheaded the launch of Chrome, a browser I’m truthfully still getting used to, but whose design certainly adheres to the company’s overarching philosophy of superficial simplicity disguising sophisticated functionality (for an indepth look at Chrome’s development, check out this really fine Wired article by Steven Levy.) A problem that has beset engineering and technology-driven companies in the past is the disconnect between its various departments. Engineers dictated what should be done thanks to what could be done, technologically speaking. They then handed the ideas over to designers who were charged with making sense of it all. The disconnect often resulted in poor products, annoyed engineers and frustrated designers (and, ultimately, often, displeased CEOs.)

Executive pay has emerged as one of the most contentious issues in the negotiations over the Treasury Department’s proposed $700 billion deal to buy up Wall Street’s junky morgage-related debt. Democrats in Congress, led by Barney Frank (D-Mass), the powerful head of the House Financial Services Committee, want the measure to include provisions that would limit the current pay as well as severance packages of executives at firms who sell their toxic securities to the government. Treasury officials have fought the move, though some limits on pay are likely to be included in the package in order to win enough support for it to pass. But how effective will they be? Not very, for the reasons outlined in this story on businessweek.com. Still, that won’t stop Congress from upping the ante. On CNBC early this afternoon, Frank said that the initial moves to limit pay and golden parachutes at firms which receive government help are only a first step. He said the current negotiations would also “lay the groundwork” for plans next year to place restrictions on executive pay on all US companies. In addition to the measures on the table now, he said Congress would also push to pass controversial “say-on-pay” measures which would give shareholders a vote on executive pay packages.

A movement to include limits on executive pay as a clause in the new bank bailout bill is gaining support from both ends of the political spectrum. House Democrats, including Financial Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank, want limits. So does the liberal Institute for Policy Studies which is calling for a maximum pay for executives at bailed-out firms of 25 times that of the lowest-paid employee. If the lowest paid employee made $30,000 a year, that would mean the most an executive could earn was $750,000. Republican Party presidential contender John McCain did that one better yesterday, saying: “The senior executives of any firm that is bailed out by Treasury should not be making more than the highest paid government official.” The president is the highest-paid federal official, earning $400,000 a year, plus $50,000 for personal expenses.

In the 15 months since it introduced the first iPhone, Apple (AAPL) has radically changed our expectations for mobile phones. But the rest of the industry isn't standing still. We're likely to see a fresh round of innovation as T-Mobile (DT) rolls out the first handset based on Google's (GOOG) Android operating system. And Research In Motion (RIMM) is fiercely defending its mobile e-mail turf with very good new products. Of the two, outsider Google faces the tougher challenge. But based on a preliminary look at the T-Mobile G1, announced on Sept. 23, launching in the U.S. and Europe in late October, I'd say it has a shot. Apple set this whole competition in motion by building a single, excellent phone within an ecosystem that it controls totally, including the right to approve all third-party software. In contrast, Google is pushing an open platform, meaning any handset manufacturer can design hardware that runs Android. The closest relative to Android is Windows Mobile, which remains awkward to use after a decade of tweaking by Microsoft (MSFT). I spent only about an hour with the G1 ($180 with two-year contract; unlimited data plans start at $25), which is co-branded by Google and handset maker HTC. Disappointingly, the phone is a bit thick and heavy. The screen slides up to reveal a keyboard, but the way the keys are recessed between raised areas on either side makes for slightly uncomfortable typing. And while the big touchscreen is nice, you can't resize objects simply by pinching or stretching them with your fingers. Once you get used to this trick on the iPhone, you expect it on every handset. The Android software is far more interesting than the G1 hardware, in part because the developers tried to tear down the walls that divide applications. Other mobile-phone operating systems get you only some of the way to this goal. On a Windows Mobile handset or an iPhone, if you click on a Web address in an e-mail message, the phone opens a Web page in a browser. Click on a phone number in a Web page, and the phone usually dials it. But a task as simple as copying text from a Web page and pasting it into an e-mail is difficult to impossible on handsets. Android tries to fix this by organizing activities in terms of users' needs and desires rather than predetermined programs. In a sense you are always in a browser, even when it doesn't look like it. Not surprisingly for a product designed by Google, search is central: If you start typing while browsing the Web or looking at a picture, Android will search the phone contents and the Web based on the text. This instant search could prove to be either extremely helpful or really annoying. I will explore it in a more detailed review of the G1 closer to its launch. One problem with the initial Android release is its Google-centricity. The search, of course, is Google search, and e-mail is optimized for Google's Gmail. The phone pulls contacts from Google Contacts, so you'll need to jump through hoops to keep the phone's contact list in sync with Outlook or the Mac Address Book. Another problem: The G1 is a data-hungry phone that will mostly be stuck on slow networks. T-Mobile is just starting up its 3G data service, and it will be available in only 21 cities. If Android is a work in progress, BlackBerry is a mature product that knows what it wants to be and keeps getting better. RIM has expanded its growing consumer line with the T-Mobile Pearl Flip and will soon announce its first touchscreen product, the Storm, with Verizon (VZ). And it has strengthened its appeal to the BlackBerry's core corporate market with the Bold. For reasons that are unclear, AT&T (T) is holding the Bold off the U.S. market, but I was able to test an unlocked Canadian version ($759) courtesy of PureMobile, on the AT&T network. It is quite simply the best BlackBerry ever. It's bigger than a Curve and feels a bit bulky after the mini-phones I have been using, but it exploits its scale to great advantage, with an excellent keyboard, a big, sharp display, and plenty of battery power to get through a long day. RIM has redesigned the user interface to take advantage of the big screen, but not so drastically that it will feel alien to BlackBerry users. With an improved Web browser, the phone moves seamlessly between AT&T's 3G service and Wi-Fi. It's expected to cost around $400 with a contract, and I hope AT&T offers it soon. If e-mail is your thing, this BlackBerry is worth waiting for. The turmoil created by the iPhone is leading to major innovations such as Android and solid evolutionary products like the Bold. Consumers are reaping the benefits.

A column examining the interplay between the ever-expanding media outlets and the Presidential campaigns can be found here. In order to expand a bit on it, let me start by looking backward. In the final run-up to the 2004 election, at least two hours of my day were occupied by abcnews.com’s The Note, which linked to all major stories of the day while wrapping its own snarky—for Beltway denizens, which is significantly squarer and tamer than snarky for major coastal cities—commentary around it.

Want to re-write the federal regulations that affect your business? Then take a look at the SBA’s Regulatory Review and Reform Initiative. The idea is that you can tell the government how to fix burdensome or outdated rules. The agency announced today that it’s taking suggestions for rules to change through the end of 2008. There’s lots of rhetoric about how regulations burden small businesses. “Unreasonable government regulations” was the sixth most important of the 75 issues on the NFIB’s small business priorities survey released in June (PDF is here). While the current Wall Street meltdown has some people rethinking the role government should play in the marketplace, there are no doubt obscure rules that could be fixed to ease the burden on small businesses while still protecting consumers.

Circuit City Stores Inc., the second-biggest U.S. electronics retailer, said Chief Executive Officer Phil Schoonover will leave after overseeing two years of losses. Vice Chairman and Director James Marcum was named acting CEO, Richmond, Virginia-based Circuit City said today in a statement. Marcum, an associate of activist investor Mark Wattles, joined the board in June. Marcum helped turn around two bankrupt companies, Hollywood Entertainment Corp., a movie-rental chain, and Ultimate Electronics Inc., an electronics retailer owned by Wattles.

The following companies had unusual price changes in Canadian trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are as of 5 p.m. in Toronto. The Standard & Poor's/TSX Composite Index slid 2.1 percent to 12,638.07.

Here’s my story this morning, and below you will find the full T-Mobile fact sheet on the HTC/Google G1 phone, the world’s first Android-powered smartphone: Introducing the T-Mobile G1 with Google, the first phone powered by Android, an innovative mobile software platform.  Available for T-Mobile customers spanning two continents, the T-Mobile G1 combines full touch-screen functionality and a QWERTY keyboard with a mobile Web experience that includes popular Google services such as Google Maps Street View, Gmail, YouTube and others.

On Sept. 23, the Senate passed a bill that extended tax credits for wind power, solar energy, and other renewable fuels. These tax incentives have been criticized in some conservative circles as being nothing but pork. Many Republicans would prefer to tackle America’s energy problems by increasing drilling, instead of supporting alternatives. But whether federal support is called ‘pork’ or ‘badly needed stimulus,’ it’s interesting to ask the question of what industries have benefited the most from subsidies from Uncle Sam. Fortunately, there’s a new study that answers this question, commissioned by the Nuclear Energy Institute.

Irish Life & Permanent Plc, Ireland's largest mortgage lender, rose in Dublin trading after denying newspaper speculation that it may be a takeover target. Irish Life rose as much as 8 percent and traded 6.4 percent higher at 6.53 euros as of 8:55 a.m. in Dublin.

AutoZone Inc., the largest U.S. auto-parts retailer, said fourth-quarter profit rose 12 percent because of better inventory management and increased sales to commercial mechanics. Net income advanced to $243.7 million, or $3.88 a share, from $217.2 million, or $3.23, a year earlier, beating analysts' estimates by 1 cent. Sales climbed 10 percent to $2.21 billion from $2 billion, the Memphis, Tennessee-based company said today in a statement. The quarter included an extra week compared with

The following is a list of companies whose stocks may have unusual changes in Paris. Symbols are in parentheses after company names and prices are from the last close. The benchmark CAC 40 on Sept. 19 soared 367.01, or 9.3 percent, to 4,324.87, the steepest one-day rally ever. The SBF 120 Index climbed 9 percent.

Italy's S&P/MIB Index rose 168, or 0.6 percent, to 28,144. Futures expiring in December increased 283, or 1 percent, to 28,260.

The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K. newspapers.  Chelsea manager Luiz Felipe Scolari criticized Manchester United for having seven players booked during the 1-1 draw at Stamford Bridge yesterday, the Daily Mail reported.

Metro AG, Germany's largest retailer, hired JPMorgan Chase & Co. to lead ``preliminary talks'' with potential buyers of its Kaufhof department stores. ``JPMorgan is talking to potential buyers, but the official sale process hasn't started yet,'' Martin Bommersheim, a spokesman for Dusseldorf, Germany-based Metro, said in an interview today, confirming a report in today's Financial Times Deutschland. ``We are not under time pressure.''

Four Australian oil companies bought stakes in onshore exploration permits offered by New Zealand's government in the Taranaki region. Rawson Resources NL and Hardie Holdings Ltd., both based in Sydney, will explore two permits east of the McKee and TAWN fields with local partners, the New Zealand government's Crown Minerals unit said today. Mosaic Oil NL and GB Energy Ltd. gained stakes in two permits near Origin Energy Ltd.'s Kauri and Rimu fields on the south coast.

Macy's Inc., the second-biggest U.S. department-store company, plans to open Bloomingdale's stores in Dubai, the chain's first outlets outside the U.S. The retailer will open two outlets by 2010 in partnership with the Al Tayer Group LLC, a Dubai-based retail investment company that represents Harvey Nichols and Gucci in the United Arab Emirates, Macy's said today in a Business Wire statement. The stores will both be located in the Dubai Mall, which is scheduled for completion later this year.

Billionaire Frank Lowy, Holocaust survivor, one-time Israeli commando and now the world's biggest shopping mall landlord, raises his hand to his forehead to indicate a shrapnel scar hidden beneath a shock of white hair. As a 13-year-old Jewish boy in Nazi-occupied Budapest during World War II, Lowy supported his mother by foraging for food after his father was deported to Auschwitz and beaten to death by a camp guard.

Tomorrow, execs from Google, Microsoft and Dell will converge onto Washington, D.C., to promote allocating certain airwaves for unlicensed use. Their idea is for the public to use this spectrum in the same way we already use Wi-Fi and cordless phone frequencies — for free. Well, whether you are a proponent or an opponent of this move, chances are, a final decision on these so-called white spaces airwaves will not come down this year. And neither will a decision on block D, which is spectrum that’s to be used by public safety agencies. The Federal Communications Commission is slated to discuss its plans for reauction of block D Thursday.

Former Bronx public defender David Feige stood in his 380-square-foot studio apartment on New York's Upper West Side and considered his metamorphosis into a Hollywood writer-producer. ``It's a little fun and a little awkward,'' said Feige, wearing blue jeans, sneakers and an untucked striped shirt over a navy T-shirt. ``There are a lot of people who would want this more than I did.''

On Aug. 19, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Christopher Cox summoned the press to a conference room at the SEC's Washington headquarters for an important announcement. The agency's new computer technology to make corporate filings more useful to investors was almost ready, and Cox wanted to give reporters a preview. In a flourish uncharacteristic of the normally buttoned-down ex-congressman, Cox, 55, strutted across the stage, took off his suit jacket and sat down at a computer to demonstrate the new Extensible Business Reporting Language, or XBRL. Investors were given a chance to ask questions about the technology online as an aide wrote a live blog.

Newcastle United owner Mike Ashley, who last week said he wants to end his involvement with the soccer club following hostility from fans, appointed broker Seymour Pierce to handle the potential sale. ``All matters relating to the sale of the club, including inquiries from interested parties, should go through Seymour Pierce,'' Newcastle said in a statement. ``The club will be making no further comment at this time.''

Russian stocks rose for a second day, led by VTB Group and OAO Transneft, after the government pledged funds to bolster stock prices of state-run companies. The Micex Index of 30 stocks added 0.6 percent to close at 1,105.73 in Moscow, after gaining as much as 5.5 percent earlier in the day. The gauge rose 29 percent on Sept. 19, the biggest advance since Bloomberg started tracking it in May 2001. The dollar-denominated RTS index climbed 1.1 percent to 1,309.5 today after jumping 22 percent on Sept. 19.

U.K. stocks fell, led by Lloyds TSB Group Plc and Barclays Plc after JPMorgan Chase & Co. advised clients to sell shares in the banks. The FTSE 100 dropped 41.39, or 0.8 percent, to 5,269.91 at 9:13 a.m. in London. The index surged the most ever on Friday after regulators banned short selling of financial companies' shares. The FTSE All-Share Index retreated 0.9 percent and Ireland's ISEQ Index lost 0.6 percent.

Crude oil, the newest safe haven? Amid high-profile implosions on Wall Street and the prospect of massive new U.S. government debt, investors rushed into crude oil futures on Sept. 22. The price of a barrel of West Texas Intermediate crude oil surged more than $25, to $130 on the New York Mercantile Exchange (CME), before settling at $120.92. The one-session rise of $16.37 rise set a record. The spike in oil came as investors bet on whether the government's $700 billion plan to buy troubled mortgage assets from banks would help the economy to rebound, keeping demand steady. The Bush Administration has proposed that the federal government acquire sour debts from U.S. financial institutions for the next two years. The measure gives the Treasury Secretary authority to buy $700 billion in mortgage-related assets and would raise the statutory limit on the national debt from $10.6 trillion to $11.3 trillion.

Hershey Co., the largest U.S. chocolate maker, rose 4.4 percent in New York trading after the Daily Telegraph reported the company has been working on the possible sale of a stake to Nestle SA. Hershey advanced $1.80 to $42.50 as of 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, after earlier surging to $44.32. The shares have gained 7.9 percent this year.

AMC network's ``Mad Men'' won the Emmy for best dramatic series, leading a sweep by basic-cable channels of the top drama prizes at the television industry's biggest awards show. Glenn Close received the nod for lead actress in her role as a New York attorney on News Corp.-owned FX Network's ``Damages,'' while Bryan Cranston, who plays high-school chemistry teacher on ``Breaking Bad,'' won best actor in a drama on AMC, owned by Cablevision Systems Corp. The 60th Primetime Emmy Awards were held last night in Los Angeles.

The following companies may have unusual price changes in U.S. trading tomorrow. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are as of 5:50 p.m. in New York, unless otherwise specified. 3Com Corp. (COMS US) gained 21 cents, or 10 percent, to $2.30. The networking-equipment maker reported its first quarterly profit since 2000, buoyed by a patent settlement and sales in China.

Crude oil prices are ``too high'' because the economic slowdown is yet to spread to India and China, where subsidies are propping up demand, the International Energy Agency's deputy executive director said. ``When the government gets involved, that makes the market more rigid and more volatile,'' William Ramsay said in Bangkok today.

Jeremy Piven, who plays a talent agent on HBO's `Entourage,' won his third Emmy Award for best supporting actor in a comedy. Zeljko Ivanek of FX Network's ``Damages'' won for best supporting actor in a drama at the 60th Primetime Emmy Awards tonight in Los Angeles, the television industry's biggest awards show.

Have you ever wanted to see an independent film but were unable to because it's only playing in New York and Los Angeles, places you don't live? Or wished that you could experience a classic like The Godfather not in your living room but on the big screen? Well you're in luck—that is, if you're in Brazil, home of MovieMobz. According to founder and CEO Fabio Lima, the idea behind MovieMobz is to eliminate the traditional notion of theatrical windows for movies while opening up independent and art house movies to communities that might not otherwise get them—all while driving additional revenue. And it's an idea that may be coming soon to a theater near you. At first, the idea of cinema on demand seems impractical. Theaters are physical spaces with screen and seat limitations that only play so many movies in a given day. How could programming them be left to the masses?

It's been more than seven years since Apple (AAPL) Chief Executive Steve Jobs bounded onto the stage at the annual MacWorld conference in San Francisco and took the wraps off the first version of iTunes. And oh, what a difference (nearly) a decade makes: The desktop jukebox has evolved from a simple, no-frills MP3 manager into an ever-expanding media gateway offering music, TV, movies, podcasts, and even video games for the iPhone and iPod. Putting episodes of Entourage on the same digital shelf as Kanye West and Ms. Pac-Man may have been a stroke of genius. But with each new version, iTunes has risked pulling a Marlon Brando, morphing from a hunky heart-throb into a corpulent has-been. Apple's latest free update, iTunes 8, was released earlier this month and its design clearly aims to deal with the bloat.

T. Boone Pickens, the billionaire hedge-fund manager who runs BP Capital LLC, comments on the roles for more passenger trains and natural-gas-powered trucks to reduce U.S. dependence on oil imports. He made the comments at the National Press Club in Washington today. On changing truck fuel from diesel to natural gas:

Holcim Ltd., the world's second- biggest cement maker, dropped the most in at least 18 years in Zurich trading after hopes of a takeover by Russian investor Eurocement Group faded. Holcim slid 18 percent to 90 francs. Today's decline pared the stock's 24 percent advance on Sept. 19, when Russia's largest cement company announced it had taken a 6.52 percent stake.

It was a week for the history books, and we were glad it finally ended. We have been working at S&P since August, 1987, and the drama this week ranks right up there with the crash of '87, even though the market did not crash. It sure fell like it was about to. Panic was evident in many of the technical indicators we monitor, as it seemed like the entire financial system was on the brink of collapse. But as has happened in the past, the government rode in on a white horse and rescued the financial markets from the brink of disaster. Never underestimate what our elected officials will do to avert a catastrophe.

Australian stocks rose, sending the All Ordinaries Index to its biggest two-day rally in 21 years, after regulators banned short selling and the U.S. government proposed a $700 billion plan to avert a financial meltdown. Babcock & Brown Ltd., an infrastructure manager, led a surge in financial stocks, soaring by a record 55 percent. Macquarie Group Ltd. rose 5.3 percent, as governments, central banks and stock market regulators stepped up efforts to prop up global financial markets. BHP Billiton Ltd. surged the most in 21 years while Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. jumped 25 percent.

Rafael Nadal isn't done with pursuing trophies this year. The top-ranked tennis player beat Andy Roddick of the U.S. 6-4, 6-0, 6-4 on a clay court at Madrid's Las Ventas bullring yesterday as Spain eliminated the defending champion to reach the Davis Cup final against Argentina.

Richard Beckman, president of Conde Nast Media Group, isn't surprised that banks aren't buying as many ads in his magazines, given the financial turmoil that claimed Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and Bear Stearns Cos. What's shocking, he said, is that he can't seem to sell ads for booze, either.

Michael Wood, 61, is an athletic man. He has an impressively low golf handicap of 12. The former corporate executive has often gone mountain biking with US President George W. Bush, a connection that may have helped him acquire his current position. Wood has been the US ambassador to Sweden for the past two years. He is not, however, very well versed in the art of diplomacy. At the end of the week before last, the Swedish daily newspaper Svenska Dagbladet published an op-ed article by the ambassador that set down some unmistakable ground rules. According to Wood, when the Swedish government evaluates the proposed Baltic natural gas pipeline project over the coming months, it should examine more than just environmental aspects. He wrote that the pipeline represents "a special arrangement between Germany and Russia" that "bypasses the Baltic States and Poland," which are "potential customers." Wood calls for the EU to speak "with a single voice to counteract the power of Russia's energy weapon."

Once again, memory chip maker SanDisk is making a push into the digital music market. SanDisk, the object of an unwelcome takeover bid from Samsung, on Sept. 22 is announcing a plan to sell memory cards preloaded with digital music. The "slotMusic" cards can be inserted into wireless phones and other digital music players with built-in memory card slots. SanDisk (SNDK) is making the announcement along with the four major music labels Warner Music Group (WMG), Universal Music Group (VIV.PA), Sony BMG (SNE), and EMI.

From the end of World War II to the early 1990s, Japan had one mission—catch up to the West. Japan has largely succeeded and now enjoys one of the world's highest standards of living. But since then the country hasn't quite known what to do with itself. So what is the next great mission that can captivate Japan's citizens? In a word—creativity. In fact, Japan is already transforming itself in ways no other major economy has by completely redefining its national mission to one of creativity and innovation.

Alexander Krasnitsky loves all the cool things he can do on the Web with his new Apple iPhone 3G. But he hates the 75% surge in the monthly bills he pays his wireless service provider. "I definitely have no love for AT&T," says Krasnitsky, a lawyer who resides in Philadelphia. It shouldn't come as a surprise that consumers who do more with their phones—Krasnitsky has downloaded some 40 applications from Apple's (AAPL) online software store—will face higher monthly service fees.

The administrator to the European business of bankrupt US investment bank Lehman Brothers, PriceWaterhouseCoopers, was last night locked in negotiations with two rival bidders over the sale of parts of the business. The first bidder is understood to be Barclays Bank, which has already agreed to buy many of Lehman's US operations and now has its eye on the bank's European equities and investment banking businesses. Barclays is not interested in acquiring other parts of Lehman's European operation, but the two units employ some 3,000 of the 5,000 staff based at the US bank's Canary Wharf headquarters. The sale of a large part of Lehman's European business to Barclays would be convenient given the British bank has already picked up so much of its US operation, a deal that was formally cleared by the US courts on Saturday.

The exclusive U.S. triple-A ratings club—those nonfinancial U.S. corporations with Standard & Poor's top credit rating—gained a new member on Sept. 22. Standard & Poor's Ratings Services assigned its AAA corporate credit rating and A-1+ short-term and commercial paper ratings to Redmond (Wash.)-based Microsoft Corp. (MSFT). The outlook is stable. The list was thinned to just five names in January as United Parcel Service (UPS) saw its Standard & Poor's credit rating downgraded (BusinessWeek.com, 1/10/08) to AA- from AAA. The number of AAA-rated U.S. nonfinancials has fallen sharply from a peak of 32 in the early 1980s (BusinessWeek.com, 3/11/05).

I was once an App Store skeptic. When Apple (AAPL) said it would use the iTunes online store to host a range of applications from third-party developers for its iPhone and iPod Touch mobile devices, I doubted that this newcomer to wireless would get things right in the first go. Surely major cellular carriers would block outsiders' data-hogging features. And would Apple really let indie coders tinker with its vaunted iPhone? As I write this, I'm eating crow. After trying out Apple's App Store for the past few weeks, I can say categorically that Apple has hit another home run. The App Store has truly unshackled the high-end cell phone.

The UK government has been accused of "mortgaging the future" after it pulled funding for high tech start-ups. A business advisory service at St John's Innovation Centre in Cambridge —which helped 400 new businesses in 2007—will shut in 2009 because of a lack of cash, according to centre director Walter Herriot.

When you order a morning coffee at a café owned by Israel-based Aroma Espresso Bars, an image of a croissant may suddenly appear on a digital display next to the cash register. Stop by for a sandwich or salad later in the day, and the display could flash a picture of a suggested beverage. Aroma Espresso says sales of desserts and drinks featured on the screens have increased as much as 68% in outlets where it has installed the display systems, starting about a year ago. The company has about 100 cafés in Israel, the U.S., Canada, and Romania. Besides boosting sales, the system aids inventory control—for example, by encouraging customers to buy Danish sweet rolls when muffins are running low.

After a powerful stock market rally on Sept. 18-19, major U.S. indexes pulled back on Sept. 22 as investors took some time to consider the implications of a signal event in U.S. financial history: the government's $700 billion bailout package for the beleaguered financial sector. On Monday, Sept. 22, Wall Street analysts, strategists, and economists had plenty to say about the monumental plan. Here's a sampling, as compiled by BusinessWeek and Standard & Poor's MarketScope staff: 
Michael Wallace, Action Economics

With their historic moves to become commercial banks, Goldman Sachs Group (GS) and Morgan Stanley (MS) have ducked the financial disaster that befell bankrupt Lehman Brothers (LEH) and led to panic sales for Bear Stearns (JPM) and Merrill Lynch (MER), but the firms will never be the same. The swashbuckling, risk-taking, and financially ingenious investment banks that produced stellar returns for years—and turned Wall Street into a stunningly lucrative place for even the most junior staffers—are fast becoming distant memories. Instead, Wall Street observers say, these firms will now operate like conventional big banks whose bywords will be prudence, far more careful risk management. and less of the financial inventiveness that spawned the subprime crisis and its myriad toxic offspring. "It's the end of an era of extraordinary leverage," says Sherry Cooper, global economist strategist for Toronto's BMO Financial Group. "The U.S. financial system is deleveraging, and the 25-to-1 or 30-to-1 leverage ratios at those institutions are just not tolerated any longer by the financial markets. Now, under traditional banking regulation, they have to have more capital and less leverage. So their proprietary trading desks won't be nearly as active or taking as much risk as before."

MAD or the Museum of Arts and Design is opening this weekend and it’s a marvel of appropriate and beautiful design. Mayor Mike is presiding over the opening ceremony as I write this. What I like most about the new museum on Columbus Circle is that it is designed around the most important thing about a museum—the collection. And for MAD that means contemporary jewelry, glass, ceramic, glass, wood and mixed media. Most of this collection is not hung on walls—but in showcases and on the floor. Visitors look down or straight at the art at eye level.

The Employee Free Choice Act (EFCA) (BusinessWeek.com, 8/28/08) would make it easier for workers to unionize in the U.S., and is causing a stir as the Presidential election approaches. The bill would allow workers to skip the lengthy process of a National Labor Relations Board election and unionize if a simple majority sign authorization cards, a process called "card check." If Democrats win more congressional seats and the White House, most observers say, the legislation is likely to pass. That's why, as Nov. 4 approaches, business groups such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce are battling labor groups and their supporters through lobbying and public-relations campaigns. Labor supporters argue the bill would help unions reverse their decades-long decline. Business leaders say such a dramatic change would harm companies and kill jobs. Here, Home Depot (HD) co-founder Bernie Marcus and U.S. Representative George Miller (D-Calif.), a co-author of the proposed law and chairman of the House Education & Labor Committee, present their differing views on the legislation.

With global financial markets still wobbly from Lehman Brothers' collapse, Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party finally filled the political vacuum left by ex-Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda's resignation three weeks earlier. On Sept. 22, the LDP met on the eighth floor of its headquarters and picked party bigwig and former Foreign Minister Taro Aso as its new leader. After the poll results were announced, Aso stood and bowed deeply several times to the gathering. The LDP ruling bloc's control of the lower house of Parliament means Aso is all but assured of becoming Prime Minister when lawmakers meet for a special session in two days. The LDP is betting that Aso can reverse its flagging ratings. And he won't have much time to do so. In the next two weeks, Aso is widely expected to dissolve Parliament (BusinessWeek.com, 9/2/08), calling a general election and putting his own job on the line.

Editorial writers around the world have called the recent Russia-Georgia war a watershed in how Russia views the world and the world views Russia. Moscow's response to criticism—"we don't need the G8, the WTO, and anything the West has to offer"—has been met with handwringing over a supposedly new multi-polar world where, in fact, Russia might not actually need the West. And without any sticks or carrots, the West might just have to settle for a new imperialistic Russia that will act with hubris and without regard for the consequences. If any more evidence was needed for that viewpoint, a new report out this week provides plenty of ammunition. The European Council on Foreign Relations (ECFR) has issued a detailed analysis of voting records at the United Nations in recent years and come up with some startling conclusions. Behind the scenes, Russia and China have successfully built coalitions at the UN to an extent where the majority of the world's nation states are more likely to vote with them than with the European Union, let alone the United States.

The United States has agreed to join Singapore, New Zealand, Chile and Brunei in a free trade agreement which could set the pace for a broader Asia-Pacific free trade area, officials said. US Trade Representative Susan Schwab is expected to announce Washington's decision to participate in the "Comprehensive Trans-Pacific Strategic Economic Partnership Agreement" at a meeting Monday with ministers from the four countries on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly, the officials said.

S&P KEEPS HOLD RECOMMENDATION ON SHARES OF MORGAN STANLEY (MS;  27.21): (Update) MS announces plans to pursue a strategic alliance with Mitsubishi UFJ (MTU;  8.40), Japan's largest banking group, with $1.1 trillion in deposits. MTU plans on purchasing up to 20% of MS, based on the agreed-upon book value of MS following due diligence, and will hold one board position at MS, pending regulatory approvals. We think this move will strengthen MS's capital position and hasten its deleveraging. We believe this also means talks between MS and Wachovia (WB; 16.80), suggested in an unconfirmed report by the New York Times, have come to an end. -M. Albrecht

Brace yourselves for massive change, as the financial crisis leads to a major redesign of the US economy and a significant recession. The recession is an almost certainty but the shape of the new economy is not. We are sharply moving away from the Chicago-School anti-regulation, pro-market set of rules and practices of the past 30 years toward a much more government-run economy. That should provide more safety but will it also generate the kind of innovation economy and growth that we also need for the 21st century? I don’t know. At the moment, it appears that Washington is using the 1930’s as a template to solve the problems of the oughts and that can’t be a totally good thing. The US may need a huge government takeover of risk and financial assets to stem the crisis, but then what? Hopefully, it will restore calm and the willingness of venture capitalists to lend and take risks once again.

Here's another development sure to outrage some observers of the mortgage crisis: Some members of the financial brain trust being tapped by Washington to clean up the mess worked at firms wrapped up in the subprime debacle. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson has yet to choose the companies that will value and manage all the toxic assets as part of his proposed bailout. But everyone in finance is angling for a piece of the government's proposed $700 billion kitty, which could bring in hefty fees. If the recent rescues of American International Group (AIG), Fannie Mae (FNM), and Freddie Mac (FRE) are any indication, some new recipients of Washington largesse will have been big participants in the lending and securitization bacchanal that precipitated the credit crisis. "There really should be a no-crony clause," says James K. Galbraith, a professor at the University of Texas. In congressional hearings, Paulson said: "We've been very conscious of [conflicts]. When we've dealt with advisers before, we've been very careful about how we do it." Perhaps no example underscores the irony more than the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.'s dealings with IndyMac Bancorp, the bank seized by the regulator in July. Days later, the FDIC turned to investment bank Lehman Brothers for advice on how to dispose of the lender's $200 billion mortgage portfolio and other assets—even as Lehman's share price was plunging on doubts it could stay in business. When Lehman filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 15, the FDIC had to push back the IndyMac auction, slated for the same day. Now the FBI is inquiring whether securities fraud took place at Lehman during its final months. Treasury, too, has tapped some Wall Street stars—not surprising given Paulson's 32 years at Goldman Sachs (GS) and the history of the firm's luminaries at Treasury. Ken Wilson, a former top banker at Goldman, started advising Paulson for free in August. Wilson consulted on some of the past decade's biggest mergers, including UBS's (UBS) 2000 marriage to PaineWebber. He also worked on one of the worst, the 2004 hookup of HSBC (HBC) and Household Finance, a subprime lending business that dragged down its parent. Another Goldman alum, Robert K. Steel, a former vice-chairman, joined Treasury in 2006 as Paulson's lead adviser on domestic finance, a bailiwick that grew to include the subprime mess. (This summer, Steel took the CEO job at Wachovia (WB).) Current executives at Goldman, which securitized tens of billions of dollars worth of home loans, helped come up with solutions for AIG. Goldman declined to comment. Paulson also has sought the counsel of Morgan Stanley (MS), which has notched $15.7 billion in losses since last summer. A team from the firm, led by Vice-Chairman Robert W. Scully and top banker Ruth Porat, counseled on the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac rescue, receiving a token $95,000 for the task. A few weeks later, the Federal Reserve asked Morgan Stanley to figure out how deeply insurer AIG was enmeshed in the financial system. Morgan declined to comment. Not all of the firms stocking Washington's cleanup team were deeply involved in the subprime fiasco. When it came time to bail out troubled Bear Stearns, the Fed tapped JPMorgan Chase (JPM), which has largely sidestepped the mess so far. A 50-person team headed by the bank also analyzed a possible private-sector solution to AIG's problems on behalf of the Fed and Treasury. And Paulson is calling on JPMorgan in crafting his bailout plan. Likewise, money manager BlackRock (BLK), which advised the government on Bear Stearns, is in discussions to manage part of that $700 billion pie. Bond giant Pimco may be trying to get a piece as well. Neither has been sullied by the subprime crisis. "Mistakes have been made, but it would be a gross simplification to say that the whole industry is not to be trusted," says a JPMorgan executive who is consulting with Treasury. Paulson's choices are understandable. After all, the universe of people who understand the complexities of this crisis is small. Conflicts arose and were addressed after the Resolution Trust Corp. was created to deal with the insolvent assets from the savings and loan crisis of the late 1980s. Law firms, for example, weren't allowed to advise the RTC on deals involving insolvent firms with which they had a previous relationship. They could, however, consult on other bank sales. Says Michael S. Gambro, a securities lawyer at Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft: "What's the cost of hiring people who are less competent to do the job?" Even so, it doesn't necessarily look good to outsiders that some architects of the misery may be lining up to profit a second time. "The taxpayers saved [the firms'] bacon," says Dan Seiver, a professor at San Diego State University. "[But] Paulson is trying to keep the profits on Wall Street."

We hear the calm before the storm has descended on Capitol Hill, at least outside the House hearing room where Henry Paulson, Ben Bernanke & the gang are getting another grilling. But the broad brushstrokes of the financial bail-out bill are beginning to take shape. The House and Senate have agreed to hash out a single bill to take to the floor of both chambers, to avoid the kind of protracted procedural ping-ponging that can days or weeks. But that means little concrete has happened while House members and staffers prepped for (and sat through) the hearing.

As many of my colleagues have mentioned, Intel chairman Craig Barrett visited BusinessWeek recently. His acidic tone and frustration and discontent with the state of America were palpable. I don’t want to go over old ground, and I recommend that you watch the video interview he filmed with Bruce, but his comment on the state of the American nation has been echoing in my head: I spent last weekend in Detroit, where I took the pictures you see here. I’m still processing what I saw. First things first, it’s a beautiful city. Some of the architecture is truly amazing. But it’s eerily empty. And in many places, buildings aren’t merely boarded up; they’re simply deserted. Post-apocalyptic is the only way to describe it, even though I hate to sound so dramatic when this is still a living and working city.

T-Mobile USA Inc. showed off the first mobile phone to run on Google Inc.'s Android software in New York today, challenging the iPhone and BlackBerry. The G1, which has a touch screen and a slide-out keyboard, goes on sale in U.S. stores Oct. 22, the companies said. The device will cost $179 with a two-year contract, compared with $199 for Apple Inc.'s iPhone 3G, which uses AT&T Inc.'s network.

As Congress continues to debate the $700 billion bank bailout plan, I’m hearing much opposition to it from friends and other authorities. There are people like my friend Kim White, an entrepreneur who says she worked hard to save for her 20% down payment when she bought a house two years ago. She continues to work hard to pay it off and doesn’t like the idea that other folks, including Wall Street firms, get bailed out. Here’s what some other smart folks are saying: The California Reinvestment Coalition, a non-profit representing low income families, suggests a six-month moratorium on foreclosures to allow families to remain in their homes while working with housing counseling agencies and loan servicers to negotiate affordable workout plans. The group also suggests reforming the Bankruptcy Code to allow judges to modify all home loans. They presently can modify second home loans.

Is this really the best way to spend $700 billion? Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke are pressing Congress to enact without delay their hugely expensive plan to vacuum up devalued mortgage-backed securities and other toxic assets. If the plan isn't passed, Bernanke warned the Senate on Sept. 23, "the economy will just not be able to recover in a normal, healthy way." But there's growing concern that the plan offers a small bang for big bucks. Hard-won experience in the U.S. dating as far back as The Great Depression—and in other countries as diverse as Japan, South Korea, and Mexico—shows that the kind of approach that Paulson and Bernanke are pushing could fail to get the U.S. economy moving again. That is a scary prospect. Because if all $700 billion buys is a bunch of weak financial institutions that have enough money to survive but not thrive, there will be a wave of anger from the taxpaying public that will make today's mounting restiveness seem mild. Forget the heated debate over whether failed bankers should be forced to disgorge their bonuses. That's chump change. The real problem with the plan, many economists argue, is that it attempts to be something that's a contradiction in terms: a free-market bailout. By scooping up securities with no strings attached, it fails to give financial firms the right incentives to get healthy. "It may not refloat the system," says Raghuram G. Rajan, a former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund who is a professor at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business. Adds Rajan: "We should be putting more capital into the well-capitalized entities, not the people who made the biggest mistakes." Given how rapidly circumstances are changing, the plan that Paulson and Bernanke pushed on Capitol Hill this week may not be the last word. Even if the plan passes more or less intact, the next Congress and Administration could change or even reverse it if economic and financial conditions fail to improve. Indeed, a new study by the International Monetary Fund finds many nations battling banking crises continuously revise their plans as one solution after another fails. For now, Paulson and Bernanke seem to be trying hard to avoid any more huge takeovers after having swallowed Fannie Mae (FNM), Freddie Mac (FRE), and American International Group (AIG). Their rescue plan is strictly voluntary. The owners of the securities will choose whether or not they want to sell, with no coercion involved. This fits Paulson's long background as a creature of Wall Street—he's a former CEO of Goldman Sachs (GS)—which means he retains a strong aversion to exerting direct government control over financial markets. The risk, though, of a free-market bailout is that the money will be spent inefficiently. The companies that get the biggest benefits will be the ones that accumulated the biggest globs of unwanted securities. As a result, the government could be propping up zombie firms that wouldn't survive under ordinary circumstances. These companies are unlikely to have enough funds to lend effectively. Instead, they will focus all their energy on simply surviving, while sucking up funds that would be better used elsewhere. Paulson and Bernanke have been deliberately vague about how much the government would pay for securities. If it tries to pay as little as possible, most banks won't participate. But if it pays above-market prices, "that would be a massive transfer from the taxpayers to the banks," notes Charles Wyplosz, an economist at the Graduate Institute of International & Development Studies in Geneva. In the best-case scenario for Paulson's plan, there is real, unrecognized value in the mortgage-backed securities sitting on financial institutions' balance sheets. He hopes that the government, by serving as a committed buyer, will be able to jump-start trading in those securities. Once it's clear to the marketplace that the disdained securities have considerable value, Paulson hopes, the uncertainty over financial institutions' net worth will be dispelled and they will be able to raise capital privately and resume normal lending. If instead the Treasury purchase plan reveals that the securities really are as worthless as many fear, Paulson and Bernanke will need an urgent Plan B (or are we up to Plan X by now?). Super-low sales prices will force financial institutions to acknowledge they have been carrying assets on their books for more than they're worth. They'll have to write them down, which could leave many undercapitalized. At that point, the government will be forced to take them over and then close them or merge them into healthier institutions. What are the alternatives to the Paulson plan? One is for the government to focus less on buying bad assets and instead recapitalize the financial system by buying substantial stakes in selected companies. That amounts to picking winners and losers, a hated concept in free-market circles. But it would save money and give taxpayers some of the gains when banks eventually recover. In his Sept. 23 testimony, Bernanke resisted the idea of grabbing equity in companies that sell assets, arguing that this "punitive" measure might discourage them from participating. Daniel Alpert, a managing director at boutique investment bank Westwood Capital, says that's like worrying that a drowning man will spurn a lifeline. Temporary public ownership worked in Sweden, where it was a key part of the nation's rapid recovery from a banking crisis in the early 1990s. "If you're taking all of the downside, you need to have some upside. That is what the man on the street would say," says Lars H. Thunell, who was named to run a Swedish government-backed company called Securum, which took over troubled companies and assets, and who is now CEO of the World Bank's International Finance Corp. in Washington. Bo Lundgren, head of the Swedish National Debt Office, says he has met with Fed officials twice this year to discuss the Swedish strategy. He said that for an intervention to work, it's not enough just to put in money. The government, he says, must "have complete control over what's done with the assets." Other countries have eased banking crises by buying shares to directly inject capital into their banks—rather than just scarfing up bad assets. The U.S. itself did so under the auspices of the Reconstruction Finance Corp. in the early 1930s. The new IMF survey of 42 systemic banking crises from 1970 to 2007, which was published in early September, found that government purchases of assets (as in the Paulson plan) "appear largely ineffective." In a Sept. 23 interview, Luc Laeven, one of its authors, said he found "it's often more effective to directly inject capital into the institutions that you want to save." (Although published by the IMF, the paper does not represent the official position of the agency.) Even aside from efficiency grounds, there's a fairness argument for not showering money indiscriminately on firms that got in trouble. Jeffrey Sachs, director of the Earth Institute at Columbia University, advised Russia on its transition from Communism before resigning in disgust over the rise of the oligarchs. Speaking from that experience, Sachs says: "There has to be a sense of fairness about anything that's done. Right now there is a profound and justifiable skepticism about the Treasury Dept. It seems like it's Wall Street bailing out Wall Street." If history is any guide, it's likely the Paulson plan will gradually evolve into one that minimizes the cost to taxpayers by giving government a strong hand to rebuild the healthier firms and kill or merge the weak ones. Government is likely to grow more powerful in other respects as well. To counteract the deflationary impact of massive debt repayment, the government is likely to step up spending on things like public works projects, even though that will swell the federal budget deficit. Japan's massive spending on marginally useful roads and bridges is often ridiculed, but it's what kept the nation's unemployment rate low and prevented economic output from ever falling below its 1990 level, when the stock market peaked, argues Richard Koo, chief economist of Nomura Research Institute. Says Koo: "If you don't put this [government spending] in, the deficit will be larger and larger because the economy will be collapsing." One often-mentioned option for the U.S. is a "Green Deal"—a modern-day successor to the employment and public works programs of the Depression-era New Deal, which would create a mix of high- and low-skilled jobs. Massachusetts Institute of Technology President Susan Hockfield isn't calling for a jobs program, but says that achieving an "energy revolution" would help the economy at the same time it eased global warming and reduced dependence on imported oil. How things shape up will depend in part, of course, on whether Republican John McCain or Democrat Barack Obama wins the White House. But in coping with a financial crisis of epic proportions, either Administration is likely to be forced into a more interventionist stance than the U.S. has seen in years. Paulson's free-market bailout may seem in retrospect like the last gasp of a failed Wall Street culture.

A huge sea change happened in wireless this week. Verizon Wireless has stopped requiring subscribers to sign up for long-term service contracts. The drawback is, if you go month to month, you have to buy new phones at full retail, vs. subsidized price. The upside is, you can end your service at the end of any month (more details are available here). Existing customers will need to wait for their current contracts to run out before moving to month-to-month plans.

I’ve been thinking about whether to put more money into the stock market, or take my remaining money out. I’m still undecided, but here’s the thing. When I looked back over the last 10 years, I discovered that the inflation adjusted return on the S&P 500 was -17%. Including dividends, the inflation-adjusted return was only -2%. That’s astounding, especially given the supposedly high profits and the low interest rates.

Just what the heck is going on? Republican presidential contender John McCain threw a huge wrench into both the Presidential campaign and the delicate negotiations over the Treasury’s $700 billion financial rescue package on Wednesday afternoon, as he announced that he was suspending his campaign and called for a postponement of the scheduled debate this Friday with rival Barack Obama. Calling on Obama to join him in the national interest, he said in a brief news conference that  conversations with lawmakers in Washington this morning have convinced him there is “no consensus” on legislation for a financial bail-out. In a bid to seize the initiative and bolster his image as a strong, bipartisan leader, McCain said he would head back to Washington to help with the negotiations. But around Washington, there were plenty of other explanations — most of them having to do with McCain’s recent drop in the polls as the financial crisis has intensified the focus on the economy in the election. McCain’s post-convention momentum has lagged in the last two weeks; having succeeded with one “hail-mary” pass in nominating Sarah Palin, several analysts following the campaign said he needed another if he is to make up ground on Obama. “He’s trying to regain his footing and get his polling numbers back up,” said Daniel Clifton, DC policy analyst for Strategas Research Partners.

When it comes to fuel efficient technologies, the only play that may get a bigger snub from Americans than diesel is natural gas. Toyota may jump in and try to change that when the Japanese hybrid king shows a natural gas-fueled Camry sedan at the Los Angeles Auto Show in November. No word yet on whether Toyota plans to put the car into production, but the company is talking bullish on compressed natural gas. And why not? Right now, CNG sells for the equivalent of about $2 a gallon, though prices fluctuate and vary by region. It’s clean and America has plenty of beneath our own soil. Ask residents of Fort Worth (Tex.) who are getting checks in their mail boxes as natural gas producers pump gas the Barnett Shale, a relatively recently-exploited natural gas field that sits under the city and for 5,000 miles around. In some cases, local residents are selling the natural gas rights under their homes for tens of thousands of dollars.

Nielsen just released data showing that U.S. wireless subscribers now send and receive more text messages than mobile phone calls. As of Q2 2008, the typical subscriber sent or received 357 text messages, compared to 204 phone calls.  While the average number of calls has remained relatively stable, the average number of text messages sent or received has increased 450% since Q1 2006.

In this most convulsive and confusing time in modern American finance, one point stands out: Credit market failure has pushed the economy to the edge, and policymakers are scrambling to pull it back. When investors began to flee the heretofore safe harbor of money-market funds in favor of Treasury bills that guaranteed a mere 0.04% return, it was plain that confidence in the financial system was breaking down. The government's ad hoc approach, intended to prevent failing institutions from collapsing the system, was not working. Now, amid Depression-era analogies, Washington is assembling a $700 billion plan to shore up the markets and rescue the economy. The bad news is, regardless of the plan's passage, the economy is still a mess, and the near-term downdrafts on growth have become stronger. Credit conditions will grow even tighter for a while as investors hunker down and flee risky assets. Banks remain hesitant to lend to one another, and corporations—even AAA-rated companies—are having new difficulties raising funds. Fear and uncertainty will further undermine confidence and depress spending. Companies will put capital projects and hiring plans on hold, assuring labor markets will weaken further. Household wealth also will continue to decline, as it has done for the past three quarters. Meanwhile, some overseas economies, a major engine for U.S. growth, are headed for a recession. On the plus side, by slashing the risk of a financial meltdown, the government's massive effort should restore confidence and put the economy on track for at least a modest recovery later next year—not two or three years from now. The mega-bailout addresses the economy's core problem: the corrosive cycle set in motion by the housing slump. The cycle starts with falling house prices and mortgage defaults. That destroys the liquidity of mortgage-related securities and causes banks to restrict credit to home buyers and other borrowers. In turn, this credit crunch cuts even deeper into home demand, further depressing prices and poisoning more securities as the cancer spreads. The plan is designed to halt this cycle. Purchases of distressed mortgages and other illiquid securities will bolster bank balance sheets, easing restrictions on credit. Also, with Fannie Mae (FNM) and Freddie Mac (FRE) set to increase their purchases of prime mortgages greatly, mortgage rates should slip lower. All this will add support to home demand and prices by next year. Meanwhile, investors are zeroing in on the potential cost of the bailout, especially its impact on the federal budget and the consequences of the coming surge in new issues of Treasury securities. The weak economy and the takeovers of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and American International Group (AIG), along with the additional funds supplied to the Federal Reserve, had already pushed estimates of Treasury's fiscal 2009 deficit to some $700 billion. Now comes the $700 billion needed to purchase troubled assets. One fear is that foreigners, who own just over half of all Treasuries, will balk at supplying the new funds. That fear has caused a sharp reversal in the dollar's recent rebound. Treasury debt should remain attractive, however, especially given the improving outlook for inflation, and the pluses to the economy from the bailout plan will eventually buoy the greenback. Another worry is that such massive government borrowing could crowd out private investment and push interest rates up. This argument seems weak as well. Given prospects for only a modest recovery, private-sector credit demand is unlikely to show much bounce anytime soon, and more frugal consumers will most likely be adding to the pool of private savings. Make no mistake, based on funds already committed and those likely to be, the cost of this bailout is huge, some 7% of gross domestic product. The important point, however, is this: The cost of not doing the bailout, in lost output, jobs, income, and profits, would be much, much greater.

Paranapanema SA, a Brazilian metals producer, said it may decide against selling its Caraiba Metais SA and Cia. Brasileira de Fertilizantes subsidiaries. ``With the planned sale of our tin assets, we have achieved our restructuring target,'' Chief Executive Officer Luiz Antonio Ferraz said today in a telephone interview. ``We don't need to sell more assets.''

Allentown, Pa., is in some ways a profoundly ordinary place. Like cities and towns all over America, it has been shaken by economic changes seemingly beyond its control: the churning of industries, the dislocation of workers. Many residents just sigh at the mention of Billy Joel's anthem to the gritty, struggling Allentown of the 1980s, when the once-great Bethlehem Steel mill went into a death spiral: "Every child had a pretty good shot to get at least as far as their old man got. But something happened on the way to that place." Allentown has reimagined itself since then. The city's biggest employer, Lehigh Valley Hospital & Health Network, is thriving. Officials have enticed companies to the area with tax breaks. A small group of businesspeople is trying to make the city center more vital: Allentown Brew Works, opened a year ago in the old Harold's Furniture building, seats 400 on four floors. Lately, though, a familiar economic anxiety has been creeping into people's lives. Some retail businesses are starting to cut back on employees' hours. And Mack Trucks announced in August that it is moving its century-old headquarters from Allentown to Greensboro, N.C. The latest details of the government's proposed $700 billion rescue plan was not the main story in the local paper, The Morning Call, on Sept. 23 (an article about the end of a teachers' strike was). But it is on people's minds. For many of Allentown's residents, the rescue is an occasion for anger, even if that feeling is at times blunted by fatigue and resignation. They dislike what goes on in Washington, but those ill feelings are nothing compared with their view of Wall Street. "People see that the chief executives of these finance companies are making millions on the backs of taxpayers," says Ed Pawlowski, the Democratic Mayor of Allentown. They are worried about how the next generation will fare in an America that many feel has mixed up its priorities. At Wal-Mart (WMT) SuperCenter Store #2641, Brett Slack, one of the owners of Lehigh Valley Paintball, was picking up groceries with his two-year-old daughter while his wife was at her part-time job as a cashier at Giant Food. He, like most others here, believes that the government has no choice but to intervene, since the consequences of inaction appear to be far worse. So fine: He can live with his tax money helping to prop up America's financial system. But he wants the chief executives of those companies (unnamed by anyone in Allentown) to pay, too. "The government should go after the CEOs," he said. "I own a business, and if I went under, the bank would come after me. They made bad decisions and figured the government would bail them out. If the CEOs end up sleeping in cardboard boxes, that would be O.K. with me. They don't deserve to be multimillionaires." Slack, who is 32, has had to lay off 20 of his 35 employees in the past year as rising gas prices slowed business. He and his two partners took pay cuts, too. "That's what CEOs and owners should do," he says. He put all his savings into the company when he started it four years ago. "If I have money to invest one day, I'll just start another business. I won't invest in the stock market," he says. The $6.95 lunch special has become very popular at the Trivet Diner. On Tuesdays it includes a jumbo sauerkraut hot dog, french fries, a drink, and pudding. Still, the lunchtime crowd isn't what it used to be. "I understand," says Carol Madura, a waitress in her 50s. "We don't go out much anymore, either." A few years ago, Madura and her husband, a self-employed contractor, decided to scale down. They sold their home (and another that they rented out) and moved into an apartment. Financially comfortable themselves, they worry about their children finding their way in a world that seems indifferent—or worse—to those without means. "Now, if you don't have a lot of money, you're doomed," she says. "I brought up my kids to work hard and save money. Now what? The rich are getting bailouts." At the diner, a bright throwback to the 1950s, she hears people talking a lot more than usual about Washington's arrogance and a diminishing sense of their own importance. "We're frustrated because we feel our input doesn't matter," she says. Her customers—the 90-year-old U.S. Navy vet, the 26-year-old line worker—all feel there has to be a better way. "The government just keeps taking our money and giving it to people who don't deserve it," says Madura. "We should be worried about those who are really struggling." Down the street at Wegmans, they're offering "consistent low prices" and samples of a cream pie at the bakery. Twenty-three-year-old Georgia Goodman works part-time in the meat department while she reconsiders her college education. She's studying philosophy at Indiana University of Pennsylvania, where she's six years into her undergraduate degree. Her parents paid for the first four years but after that told her she was on her own. Still, she has money in the stock market, and she's keeping it there. "It's bad, but I'm not checking my account every day," she says. "I'm not retiring anytime soon." As to how a multibillion-dollar bailout will come to affect her generation, she says: "I'm intrigued that the government is willing to pump money into corporations who have successfully pumped money into CEOs' pockets." She, too, regards this as further evidence of the strange, distorted reality that prevails on Wall Street. "It was supposed to be that if you worked hard, you would benefit. And if you worked harder, you would benefit more. Now it seems to be the reverse. If you break your back working 60 hours a week, you make $12,000 a year. And if you work in a penthouse overlooking Central Park and take long lunches, you make $12 million." Allentown has plenty of low-wage jobs. Nancy Wood is an administrator in a cardiac care practice affiliated with the local hospital. Wood, in her mid-50s and divorced, earns $22,000 a year. She rents an apartment and has no savings. "They're spending billions on the fat cats. What a total waste," she says at the end of her eight-hour shift. "Poor people like me, we never get that kind of help. I'm kind of down and out myself. Why can't they provide normal people with affordable health care instead? I haven't been to the eye doctor in seven years." As evening falls, the Allentown Brew Works begins to draw people in. Like other local establishments, it is adjusting to tougher economic times. "This feels much more substantial than the dot-com bust," says Beau Baden, the brewmaster at the pub. "We're feeling it everywhere: at work, at the pump, at the grocery store." Recently, Mike Fegley, the restaurant's marketing director and a member of the family that owns the Brew Works, helped reengineer the menu. The $23 steak is gone. Among the new entrees is crab sliders for $11.99. But the most popular item is still the half-pound all-natural hamburger, which goes for $8.50. On Tuesdays it's half off. Derrick Davis is a regular. He's a construction manager, 42 years old, single, and living in a loft right across the street. He rarely uses credit cards (he keeps them in his safe deposit box), and he puts 20% of his income into his retirement account. Even now. He's buying low. "My 401(k) is suffering, and no one is bailing me out," he says. "If it's vital to the economy, O.K. But the people who ran the companies into the ground shouldn't be bailed out. We have a bit of an issue with that. We're covering for them. I'd love to do badly and get a bonus. I want people held accountable for their failures." Join a debate about whether the bailout is fair to taxpayers.

Citigroup Inc. and four of its biggest U.S. competitors had their earnings estimates lowered by Oppenheimer & Co. analyst Meredith Whitney, who said U.S. home prices may fall an additional 25 percent. Citigroup, based in New York, will probably report a loss of 36 cents a share for the third quarter, Whitney said in a note today, compared with her earlier estimate of an 8-cent profit. She also cut her predictions for Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Wachovia Corp. and Wells Fargo & Co.

UBS AG hired 26 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. investment advisers to manage about $10.9 billion for clients from offices in New York, Los Angeles and San Francisco. Scott Stackman, Kenneth Witover, Adam Rosenthal and four other advisers joined the New York office and will report to Frank Minerva, who will supervise nine advisers, UBS spokeswoman Allison Chin-Leong said. The seven have $5.8 billion in assets under management, said a person familiar with the matter who declined to be identified because the information isn't public.

British fast-broadband operators should be given freedom to price their products to generate a sufficient return on investment, regulator Ofcom said. Ofcom aims to remove barriers to investment and ensure competition and consumer choice in the super-fast broadband market, the London-based watchdog said in an e-mailed statement today. Ofcom also aims to protect consumers to ensure continued availability of services and a seamless move from copper to new fiber networks in the future.

Cable television networks are benefiting from a shift of marketing dollars from broadcasters and see a ``favorable advertising environment,'' said John Landgraf, president of News Corp.'s FX Networks. ``Advertisers are controlling their costs -- they're cutting back some local advertising, they're enriching the mix of basic cable networks,'' Landgraf said yesterday in an interview in Los Angeles. ``For now the economics really play in the favor of basic cable.''

The following companies had unusual price changes in Canadian trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are as of 5 p.m. in Toronto. The Standard & Poor's/TSX Composite Index fell 0.8 percent to 12,532.63.

Yesterday morning, Cisco Systems’ charismatic Chairman and CEO John Chambers addressed the World Business Forum taking place this week in New York. After taking the crowd of CEOs and senior vice presidents through some of the company’s accomplishments – annual revenues have shot from $1.2 billion to $35 billion over the past decade – Chambers quickly moved on to his high-adrenalin vision of the future. In Chambers’ view, business is on the verge – not in the midst – of a dramatic transformation, a huge leap forward in productivity built on collaboration made possible by Web 2.0-style tools similar to YouTube, FaceBook, and Wikipedia but adapted to the corporate environment. “Our children, with their social network[ing], have presented us with the future of productivity,” he emphatically told the crowd of about 4,500 executives.

Yahoo just launched its long-awaited display-advertising system, now called APT. As I wrote in a story last week, the system, known more recently as AMP, is Yahoo’s latest (maybe last) best hope for recharging its growth. But it’s going to take awhile, and it’s not clear CEO and cofounder Jerry Yang has the year or two Yahoo says it will take to roll out the system to all the players, from publishers to advertisers and ad agencies to ad networks. With Yahoo’s stock hovering around $19 a share, about what it was when Microsoft made its unsolicited bid late last January, shareholders are increasingly impatient. With Carl Icahn and two of his cohorts now on Yahoo’s board—and Icahn continuing to call for a linkup with Microsoft—time’s running short. And I don’t think those reports of new talks for Yahoo to acquire AOL are going to result in anything real soon, from what I hear.

Thailand's SET Index fell 6.24, or 1 percent, to 608.25 at the close, a second day of declines. More than two stocks dropped for each that gained. Banks: Bangkok Bank Pcl (BBL TB), the nation's largest bank, declined 3 baht, or 2.9 percent, to 100, on concern the credit crisis in the U.S. will cut investor demand for financial stocks. Krung Thai Bank Pcl (KTB TB), the second-biggest lender, dropped

A group of Nigerian businessmen has put together a ``large sum'' to bid for English Premier League soccer team Newcastle United, their U.K. representative said. ``The consortium is lodging the money with the lawyers and once that happens I will begin talks with Newcastle,'' Chris Nathaniel, who also represents England national team player Rio Ferdinand, said in an interview today. He denied media reports that the group composed of ``oil barons'' and ``media moguls'' will offer 400 million pounds ($745 million) for the northeast England-based team.

European stock-index futures dropped on concern the U.S. government's plan to buy $700 billion of bank assets won't prevent a global recession. U.S.-traded securities of Barclays Plc, the U.K.'s third-biggest bank, and Societe Generale SA declined. Deutsche Lufthansa AG may lead transport shares lower after oil surged 16 percent yesterday. Sanofi-Aventis SA, France's largest drugmaker, will probably retreat after Credit Suisse Group AG reduced its recommendation on the shares.

Fuel economy quickly is becoming a more important factor to car buyers. A new study by J.D. Power and Associates surveyed nearly 30,000 new-vehicle buyers from May to July. Forty percent of those customers rejected a potential choice because of price.

Bay Harbour Management LC, a hedge fund that invests in debt of bankrupt and distressed companies, challenged a court order approving the sale of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.'s North American business to Barclays Plc. Bay Harbour didn't disclose the grounds for the appeal in a court filing yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York. Bay Harbour and another hedge fund, Amber Capital, filed objections in Lehman's bankruptcy case last week, claiming $8 billion was improperly transferred out of the failed investment bank's European units before its collapse.

There is no shortage of blame for the financial debacle rocking America and scaring the world. And among the names popping up in the pathology of this vicious malaise are former Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan, former Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin, former Texas Senator Phil Gramm, and former President Bill Clinton. It was on their watch that the banking strictures of the 1933 Glass-Steagall Act were dismantled. Some critics say tearing down the barriers between commercial and investment banks contributed to the current crisis because it allowed commercial banks such as Citigroup (C) to trade mortgage-backed securities. In fact, former Citi CEO Sandy Weill led the fight for deregulation. President Clinton was in New York this week for the annual meeting of his philanthropy, the Clinton Global Initiative, and I asked him about the banking crisis. Mr. President, in 1999 you signed a bill essentially rolling back Glass-Steagall and deregulating banking. In light of what has gone on, do you regret that decision? No, because it wasn't a complete deregulation at all. We still have heavy regulations and insurance on bank deposits, requirements on banks for capital and for disclosure. I thought at the time that it might lead to more stable investments and a reduced pressure on Wall Street to produce quarterly profits that were always bigger than the previous quarter. But I have really thought about this a lot. I don't see that signing that bill had anything to do with the current crisis. Indeed, one of the things that has helped stabilize the current situation as much as it has is the purchase of Merrill Lynch (MER) by Bank of America (BAC), which was much smoother than it would have been if I hadn't signed that bill. Phil Gramm, who was then the head of the Senate Banking Committee and until recently a close economic adviser of Senator McCain, was a fierce proponent of banking deregulation. Did he sell you a bill of goods?Not on this bill I don't think he did. You know, Phil Gramm and I disagreed on a lot of things, but he can't possibly be wrong about everything. On the Glass-Steagall thing, like I said, if you could demonstrate to me that it was a mistake, I'd be glad to look at the evidence. But I can't blame [the Republicans]. This wasn't something they forced me into. I really believed that given the level of oversight of banks and their ability to have more patient capital, if you made it possible for [commercial banks] to go into the investment banking business as Continental European investment banks could always do, that it might give us a more stable source of long-term investment. Bob Rubin is now a high officer of Citigroup and is advising Senator Obama. Should the senator be listening to someone who works for a firm that is deeply involved in the subprime mess?First, he was clearly one of the two or three finest Secretaries of the Treasury this country ever had. And his policies and advice, not only as my Treasury Secretary but as the first head of my National Economic Council, were responsible for eight years in which median income went up $7,500, as opposed to a $2,000 decline in this eight-year period, and where you had 22.7 million new jobs [created] as opposed to this period, which will be at most 5 million and probably less. So I think Bob Rubin's credentials speak for themselves. Should the government be there if financial-services firms fail and take on too much risk?I think in this case, the [government] had no choice. And I think the longer you wait, ironically, the more you have to do and the more money you have to spend. So, in a funny way, the people who are most against market intervention wind up having to preside over the biggest market intervention that costs the most money because we all know that markets without disclosure, without capital requirements, without market requirements tend to unsustainable extremes. But where do you stop? Should the feds have bailed out Lehman? Should they be bailing out Morgan Stanley (MS)?I think the Bear Stearns thing was necessary. And it worked. It just didn't stem the tide because of the underlying massive amount of unsustainable debt in the real estate market, both residential and commercial. I think Fannie Mae (FNM) and Freddie Mac (FRE) had to be done because, frankly, it was never an ideal structure. They were government operations—but not. I think it looked bizarre that you [bail out] Bear Stearns, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and then say no to Lehman Brothers and yes to AIG (AIG). What does that mean? Does that mean there was no principle involved? Probably. My instinct would have been to offer Lehman Brothers a line of credit at least. Something like what was offered to AIG. It's not as big. The consequences to the economy are not as great. But psychologically, it was unsettling. Why is John McCain making the opening remarks at the Clinton Global Initiative?Well, I've always invited President Bush, and one year Condi Rice came, and one year Laura Bush came. Last year, Secretary Paulson came. He's [chuckle] otherwise occupied right now. So I've always made this bipartisan. And I have invited Senator McCain every single year for one simple reason: He was, as far as I could tell, the first Republican senator to say global warming was real and we needed a comprehensive response to it. If McCain wins, will Hillary be back in four years?I don't know. I think that her focus will now be on what she can do to help deal with all those things that threw her into the Presidential race in the first place. For example, today she gave the most detailed position I've seen on what we ought to do on the finance crisis. She said we ought to follow not the Resolution Trust Corp. model for dealing with these homes and commercial properties. We ought to go back to the Home Owners' Loan Corp. that was a product of the Depression. That actually made a profit for the American people by stabilizing a disastrous run on the market for financing homes. She's out there working hard for Senator Obama. But no matter who wins, we've got to shelve the politics for a while and work on the substance.

UBS AG, the top arranger of overseas Chinese share sales this year, hired Joe Zhang, the firm's former co-head of China research, as deputy head of investment banking in China, the company said in an e-mailed statement today. The firm also promoted Henry Cai, current chairman and head of investment banking in China, as vice chairman of investment banking in Asia, the statement said. Zhang will start on Sept. 29 and report to Cai.



































































































































































































Some small businesses, squeezed hard by the credit crunch and unable to obtain bank loans, have found unique sources of funding. The New York Post reports that the popular Five Points Fitness gym in SoHo finally gave up on a bank loan it was in the process of obtaining in order to expand. Instead, the gym’s owner Kevin McGrath, turned to a number of its clients who loaned him the $175,000 needed to move into a bigger facility.

U.S. Marine Corps recruits endure intense physical activity, strict discipline, and a lot of mental stress in boot camp. Some would-be retirees say Marcia Tillotson and Joy Kenefick's retirement boot camp isn't all that different. The Charlotte (N.C.) financial advisers at Wachovia Securities (WB) make clients a year or two away from retirement undergo a rigorous financial indoctrination to test their limits. Their clients must compile a comprehensive net worth statement of assets and liabilities, tot up every single expense over the past year, sock away as much as 25% of their pretax income into a retirement account, and live on a tight budget. "Our clients are in basic training for retirement," says Tillotson, who has been offering boot camp for the past six years. (There's no charge for the program; clients pay from 0.5% to 1.85% of assets, depending on how much they invest.) Few advisers ask their clients to go to such extremes. But most advisers do have to persuade would-be retirees to do a reality check before taking the plunge. After taking a hard look at the numbers, many people decide to work a few more years or realize they need to cut spending in certain areas. Before working with Tillotson and Kenefick, Jim Thomas, 71, was inclined to let his money "sit around in a mayonnaise jar." A U.S. Army sergeant in his youth, he says putting his finances through the wringer is a lot like military instruction. Retirement boot camp "forces you to change the ways you think about money," says Thomas, who retired from the petroleum distribution business he owned with his wife, Kathy, three years ago. A new mindset gave the Thomases the discipline to get rid of season tickets to the Carolina Panthers and pay off mortgages on their primary residence in Charlotte as well as a second home in the Cayman Islands. "We really had to stretch," says Kathy, 69. Before figuring out what to cut, though, people have to know what they are spending. Getting a realistic handle on what you spend "can be a real tripping point for people getting ready for retirement," says Nashville financial planner Keith Newcomb. One expense category that often surprises pre-retirees is how much they spend on gifts. After three months of tracking expenses for Tillotson and Kenefick, Kay and John Sitton, who own a software consulting firm in Charlotte, were shocked to learn that the tally came to $1,000 a month for their three children and three grandchildren. The Sittons are sticking with their plan to retire within the next 18 months and are cutting back on clothing and personal items, but not gifts. Sometimes facing the numbers means adjusting plans more. Before he met with his financial adviser in August, Paul Hvidding, a human resources manager at an energy trade association in Arlington, Va., thought he could saunter into his boss's office and say "Adios." Hvidding, 61, is eligible for retirement in November. But after reviewing their net worth with Gordon Bernhardt, an adviser in McLean, Va., Hvidding and his wife, Beverly, a paralegal at a telecommunications company, decided it made more sense for them to keep working. They plan to save an extra $25,000 a year for the next four years. Do exercises like retirement boot camp work? Tillotson and Kenefick say almost 60% of clients wind up delaying their retirement for at least a year so they can save more money. One plus of putting it off: Jobs that once seemed dead-end suddenly aren't so bad. "Once you've given yourself permission to retire, it's a lot easier to go to work," says Kenefick.

Imagine there was one number that could sum up how influential you are. It would take into account all manner of things, from how many people you know to how frequently you talk with them to how strongly they value your opinion. Your score could be compared with that of pretty much anyone in the world. Maybe it'll be called your Google number. Google (GOOG) has a patent pending on technology for ranking the most influential people on social networking sites like MySpace (NWS) and Facebook. In a creative twist, Google is applying the same approach to social networks it has used to dominate the online search business. If this works, it may finally make ads on social networks relevant—and profitable. Google declined to discuss its idea with BusinessWeek. But it is based on the same principle as PageRank, Google's algorithm for determining which Web sites appear in a list of search results. The new technology could track not just how many friends you have on Facebook but how many friends your friends have. Well-connected chums make you particularly influential. The tracking system also would follow how frequently people post things on each other's sites. It could even rate how successful somebody is in getting friends to read a news story or watch a video clip, according to people familiar with the patent filing. "[Google] search displays Web pages with the highest influence—it makes complete sense for them to extend this to online communities and people," says Jeremiah Owyang, an analyst at Forrester Research (FORR). How would this improve advertising on social networks? Say there's a group of basketball fans who spend a lot of time checking out each other's pages. Their profiles probably indicate that they enjoy the sport. In addition, some might sign up for a Kobe Bryant fan group or leave remarks on each others' pages about recent games they played or watched. Using today's standard advertising methods, a company such as Nike (NKE) would pay Google to place a display ad on a fan's page or show a "sponsored link" when somebody searches for basketball-related news. With influence-tracking, Google could follow this group of fans' shared interests more closely, see which other fan communities they interact with, and—most important—learn which members get the most attention when they update profiles or post pictures. The added information would let Nike both sharpen and expand its targeting while allowing Google to charge a premium for its ad services. If Nike wanted to advertise a new basketball shoe, for example, it could work with Google to plop an interactive free-throw game only on the profile pages of the community influencers, knowing the game would be likely to draw the most attention in these locations. And because the new technique ranks links among groups, Google could also target the ads to broader communities. "I would pay a premium to get a particular video in front of someone who [shares] with others, and an even bigger premium for a lot of people who would share," says Ian Schafer, CEO of online ad firm Deep Focus, whose clients include Sean Jean and Universal Music Group. Influence-ranking is no academic exercise for Google. So far the search giant has failed to earn much profit from social networking ventures. In 2006, Google promised to pay News Corp.'s (NWS) MySpace $900 million over three years for the right to put ads on the site. Google executives have expressed disappointment in that project, which is shaving 1.5% off Google's gross margins, according to Jeffrey Lindsay, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. In its patent filing, Google acknowledged that some of its old approaches didn't work. With the new techniques, says Deep Focus' Schafer, "Google could be the Google of social media."

Trying to guess whether oil prices, which jumped by as much as 25%, to $130, on Sept. 22, will surge or slump? Don't look to the commodity producers for answers. Even companies pumping oil out of the ground don't have a clue where prices are headed. In this volatile market, several industry players have made ill-timed bets that have wiped out their profits. Consider what happened this summer. Energy prices were skyrocketing and some oil and natural gas producers decided the rally wouldn't persist. To protect themselves against the downside, companies bought options and other financial instruments in an attempt to lock in high prices, a common practice known as hedging. In the most basic strategy, a producer makes an agreement to sell a commodity at a predetermined price at a later date.

Are you reeling? Goldman Sachs (GS) and Morgan Stanley (MS) are now commercial banks; the Treasury Dept. is proposing a $700 billion bailout. Taxpayers are backstopping the $3.5 trillion money-market mutual fund business. AIG got a government rescue (AIG). Lehman is bankrupt. And so on, as the list of once-unthinkable events grows longer. If there is anything positive to take away from the meltdown, it's that people are reassessing the risks in their portfolios. To help investors navigate chaotic markets, this guide highlights safe havens and examines whether now is the time to own actively managed funds or index funds. We probe the risks of credit default swaps, complex securities that wreaked havoc on Wall Street and may lurk in mutual funds. To see what the "smart money" is doing with their personal money, we check in with finance professor Jeremy Siegel, brokerage pioneer Muriel Siebert, and other experts. Lastly, we learn about retirement boot camp—a unique way some financial advisers prep would-be retirees.

Since taking over as chief executive of ailing insurance giant American International Group (AIG) on Sept. 18, Edward M. Liddy has given few details of his plan for reviving the company. But one thing is clear: He's moving fast. Despite AIG's size and complexity, with dozens of divisions in 130 countries, Liddy has said he will restructure in a matter of weeks, not months. What's driving him is not just the onerous interest rate AIG has to pay on its $85 billion line of credit from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. With each passing day, AIG's best assets, its insurance businesses, are eroding in value as competitors lure away AIG customers and key employees polish their résumés. "Uncertainty is very bad for AIG's insurance units," says David W. Steuber, a Los Angeles partner at law firm Howrey and an adviser to many AIG customers. Liddy has said he hopes to keep as much of the insurance business within AIG as possible. But faced with the need for capital to cover its disastrous mortgage bets, AIG may have to put many of its corporate gems on the block quickly. And in a new survey by Insurance Journal, more than 60% of the 1,000 brokers who responded expect to do less business with AIG in the future. In a report published on Sept. 23, Credit Suisse Group (CS) put an aftertax value on AIG's assets at anywhere from $94 billion to $122 billion. The final tally will depend on how big a "distressed discount" it will face. Even now, the noninsurance businesses are beaten down, with AIG's aircraft leasing operation expected to fetch roughly $2.2 billion after taxes (a Citigroup (C) analysis puts the unit's book value at $7 billion). Tough times will drive down all prices. AIG's profitable foreign life insurance business, with its strong position in Japan, is expected to fetch around $24 billion—much less than its estimated value a year ago. One argument for selling some insurance holdings now is that buyers are already circling. Even before AIG's woes, the weak U.S. dollar had sparked interest from foreign insurers hunting for market share. And unlike banks, these insurers have more than enough assets to cover potential policy losses and are looking to put some of that surplus capital to use. Industry experts have Germany's Allianz (AZ), Italy's Assicurazioni Generali, and France's AXA (AXA) (none of which would comment) on the short list. Japan's Tokio Marine Holdings (TKOMY), which recently bought insurer Philadelphia Consolidated Holding (PHLY) for $4.7 billion, is also on the list; it did not respond to calls. Bermuda-based companies, which often underwrite such risks as terrorist strikes, may want AIG's "surplus lines" business. Meanwhile, a group of AIG equity investors is looking for ways to pay off the government loan. Thirty-five of them met on Sept. 22 in the New York offices of law firm Mayer Brown, where partner Mickey Kantor, a former Commerce Secretary, coordinated the discussion. Among those at the table: former AIG Chief Executive Maurice R. "Hank" Greenberg,  SunAmerica founder Eli Broad, and representatives of the $154 billion New York State Common Retirement Fund. "We believe it's possible, but daunting, to find in a reasonable amount of time the private capital to re-privatize AIG," says Kantor—a stance he maintained a day later, when AIG signed a definitive agreement with the New York Fed. One worry for potential buyers is bad investments lurking inside any units up for sale. Another is the long-term health of the brand as AIG tries to hold on to its customers and employees. Industry sources say ACE (ACE), Ironshore, and C.V. Starr have contacted brokers for AIG customers to grab business. ACE and Ironshore acknowledge contacting brokers to help customers. C.V. Starr, once an AIG affiliate, did not return calls. On Sept. 19, ACE ramped up capacity for certain commercial insurance to woo clients. ACE USA CEO John Lupica noted that the situation "underscores the importance of partnering with a financially strong insurer." Andrew Colannino, an analyst at insurance rating agency A.M. Best, asserts that "some erosion of franchise value and customers will happen." Most of AIG's operating companies are well financed, and insurance regulators from dozens of states have made statements backing their health. Even so, AIG executives face constant questioning. At its U.S. commercial insurance business, which posted $5 billion in earnings over the past 12 months, CEO John Q. Doyle and his finance chief, Robert S. Schimek, say they've held conference calls since AIG's bailout with as many as 10,000 clients on the line at a time. The No. 1 question: Will the parent company's woes suck money out of the stellar insurance business? Doyle says he hasn't been losing customers. But John Phelps, director of business risk at Blue Cross & Blue Shield of Florida, says he's discussing options with his broker and his underwriter at AIG. He's sticking with the company for now, but "when we get closer to our [policy] expiration date," Phelps says, "we may ask to look at alternatives, just in case."

Stuttgart - With a price tag topping $100,000, the new Mercedes-Benz S-Class hybrid isn't aimed at folks who can't afford $4-a-gallon gas. Rather, the car is the first in a series of new German models that let well-heeled customers appear green without giving up land-yacht amenities such as twin-powered sunroofs, vast leather seats, and a top speed of 150 miles per hour. "If we want to preserve the American way of driving, there's no alternative," says Klaus Meier, director of sales and marketing for Mercedes. The new S-Class, unveiled on Sept. 11 and due in the U.S. a year from now, is the first of a wave of high-end German hybrids. BMW, Porsche, and Audi (VLKAY) are also promising gas-electric models, mostly SUVs, in the next two years. Why now, a decade after Toyota (TM) started selling the Prius? Concern about global warming has finally reached wealthy U.S. buyers. Sales of luxury cars have plummeted in the past year, with unit sales of the gasoline-powered S-Class in the U.S. dropping 27%, according to Autodata. The only top-end luxury models to register growth were Toyota's Lexus hybrids. "All of a sudden, premium buyers are asking, 'Is the car socially acceptable? Is it environmentally friendly?' " says Gregor Matthies, a partner at consultant Bain & Co. in Munich. Can a hybrid Mercedes reverse the trend? Mercedes says the vehicle gets an impressive 30 mpg—30% better than a gasoline version of the same model, making it the most fuel-efficient big luxury car on the market. But, because of different methodologies, American regulators tend to assign lower mileage ratings than the Europeans. And at some point, U.S. buyers, like their European counterparts, may realize that modern diesel cars offer hybrid-like fuel economy—often for less money. Mercedes already sells a 30 mpg diesel S-Class in Europe that runs about $100,000. A diesel version of BMW's redesigned 7 series, being unveiled in late September, will get better mileage than the S-Class hybrid. Moreover, in the U.S., Mercedes faces the well-entrenched Lexus. The brand launched its first hybrid three years ago and can draw on Toyota's years of expertise. Unlike the S-Class, which uses battery power only to boost the gasoline engine, Lexus models can run solely on electricity. "To us, hybrid is not something we are adding on to the lineup—this is really who we are," says Karl Schlicht, who oversees Europe for Lexus. Mercedes sales reps have their talking points, too. Their hybrid's biggest innovation is a compact battery that fits into the existing engine compartment rather than crimping trunk space as in Lexus models—possibly a selling point for uncompromising luxury buyers. And Mercedes tried to make the driving experience as much like a conventional S-Class as possible. At highway speeds, the two-ton car is eerily quiet, and shifting by the seven-speed automatic transmission is almost imperceptible. For drivers, the only obvious indication that they're behind the wheel of a hybrid is a light on the dashboard. The number of S-Class buyers—28,000 worldwide in the first half of 2008, or less than 10% of Mercedes' total—is too small for the hybrid version to contribute much to a healthier planet. But even some skeptics say it's a start for Mercedes and the German auto industry. "The hybrid S-Class won't rescue the world," says Tomi Engel, an electric car expert at the Agency for Renewable Energy, a German trade group. "But we desperately need these [hybrid] technologies in Germany."

When E. Stanley O’Neal ran Merrill Lynch, the big Wall Street brokerage started to resemble a giant hedge fund—juicing its returns with a big bet on tens of billions of dollars in now toxic mortgage-backed securities. So it’s only fitting that nearly a year after O’Neal was forced out at Merrill, the former Wall Street CEO is considering joining a fast-growing hedge fund, among other job opportunities. O’Neal is mulling taking a position with Vision Capital Advisors, a three-year-old hedge fund led by stock and bond trader Adam Benowitz and Harvard Business School finance professor Randolph Cohen, according to people close to the situation. New York-based Vision, which launched in 2005 with well under $100 million, now has $850 million in assets under management and is one of the fastest growing hedge funds on Wall Street.

In a time of financial crisis, what's the least painful place for an individual investor: a slumping index fund or a staggering competitor that's actively managed? Sadly, there's no simple answer. Most active managers trail the indexes over the long term, especially when you count the added trading costs of active management and index funds' lower fees. But some pros argue that there are times—and now may be one of them—when the market's extreme volatility favors a hand on the helm. A prescient manager might have avoided financial stocks before they plummeted, and might be able to spot bargains in coming weeks while panic has others fleeing. But only the right manager, chosen at the right time, will put you ahead of the pack. Some experts without a personal stake in the matter maintain that it's unlikely you'll have the savvy to make this choice. "I think the arguments for indexing hold even more so now," says Stuart Michelson, a finance professor at Stetson University in DeLand, Fla. "Active managers have a very hard time outperforming the index funds. In turbulent markets, where it's even harder to figure out what's going on, I would put a lot more faith in an index over an active manager." Many fund managers, Michelson notes, loaded up on financial stocks just before the financial crisis and have cost investors far more than they would have lost by following the broader market. Clipper Fund (CFIMX), a well-regarded actively managed value fund, had 10.5% of assets in AIG (AIG) and Merrill Lynch (MER)—and is down 30.1% year to date, according to research firm Morningstar (MORN). We asked Morningstar to crunch numbers on actively managed large-cap funds vs. the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index following five market meltdowns since the October 1987 stock market crash. (The others were the late-1980s savings and loan crisis, the 1998 bailout of Long-Term Capital Management, the dot-com crash of 2000, and the September 11 terrorist attacks.) The result: a bit of a muddle. In some cases, active management proved a winner; in others, the index held its own. "When you look through these five previous financial crises, they don't really support the notion that active management is superior in a time of crisis, which is a theory that is often advanced," says John Rekenthaler, Morningstar's vice-president of research. The picture may be different if you choose the ideal manager, he says. Sequoia Fund (SEQUX), which has an outstanding long-term track record and a large holding in Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway (BRK.A), was well ahead of the indexes five years after each crisis, according to Morningstar. Closed to new investors for more than 25 years, Sequoia reopened in May. Most investors, however, don't pick great managers and stick with them. That's why  Larry Swedroe, director of research at Buckingham Asset Management in St. Louis and author of Wise Investing Made Simple, thinks it's a fool's game to try. "You're better off abandoning hope of beating the market," he says. At a time like this it's especially vital to build a portfolio out of the best and lowest-cost passive funds, he adds. And don't rely just on an S&P 500 fund. In fact, diversification generally may be more important than whether you choose actively managed funds or indexes. William Goetzmann, a professor of finance at the Yale School of Management, says that the past two weeks don't provide any rationale for rethinking your basic assumptions. "I don't see any big reason to change your mind about stock indexing because of the crisis," Goetzmann says. He's long been hedging his own bets by investing the bulk of his money in index funds and a slice in actively managed ones. "I believe a little bit in skill," he says, "but I like that this index I am invested in has generated an equity premium over the long term."

When Colin Buechler left Dell (DELL) last year, he never thought he would end up at a videoconferencing company. Ever since AT&T (T) unveiled a videophone prototype at the 1964 World's Fair in New York, the technology has promised the moon but delivered mainly jittery pictures and out-of-synch audio. Buechler knew there was a videoconferencing system at Dell, but never bothered to use it. "I couldn't even tell you where it was," he says. Then Buechler met up with Craig B. Malloy, CEO of startup LifeSize Communications, across town from Dell in Austin, Tex. As they talked, Malloy launched high-definition-quality video calls with business partners in Guatemala, Norway, and India, and Buechler was struck by the way these sharp images enhanced the whole interaction. He quickly signed on as LifeSize's senior marketing vice-president. Buechler's timing looks smart. While TV pundits debate the reasons for Wall Street's sudden collapse, chief executives around the U.S. are steeling for a recession and scrutinizing costs. That includes travel expenses—providing a once-in-an-era opportunity for the $1.6 billion videoconferencing industry. Cisco Systems (CSCO), Polycom (PLCM), and Hewlett-Packard (HPQ) are seeing strong interest in their swank "telepresence" systems, which create the illusion of sitting in the same conference room with people in far-off locales. From Cisco, customers get specially furnished conference rooms, each costing as much as $300,000, with high-end equipment fit for a TV-studio. Customers shell out at least $5,000 a month for fast data pipes. Cisco's sales have doubled to more than 1,000 units since May, and sales could reach $1 billion by 2010. Says Marthin De Beer, head of Cisco's Emerging Technologies Group: "Telepresence is about putting your best salesman in front of your best customer in a matter of minutes." LifeSize says it provides similar benefits at much lower prices. Combining its own HD cameras with some fancy video processing, the startup offers sharp pictures over ordinary Internet hardware for as little as $5,000—or up to $40,000 for full telepresence. Without massive network upgrades of the sort Cisco provides, LifeSize customers may notice some blurring when people move quickly. Even so, 4,000 customers ranging from giant Wal-Mart Stores (WMT) to tiny Web venture FetchDog.com have purchased 15,000 systems. Telepresence, says Malloy, "is not just for the richest companies in the world." LifeSize may soon have to share the low end of the market. Polycom has dropped its prices below $10,000 for some systems, and Cisco is also moving down market. Perhaps more important, Cisco has unveiled a sweeping new scheme to use telepresence in many business and consumer settings. A giant LCD screen at your bank, for example, might display mortgage rates and other data one moment, and at the flick of a button, conference you in with a mortgage broker. LifeSize can't compete with Cisco in all such applications. But it gets good reviews from its customers. Activision (ATVI), the computer game maker, has placed 24 LifeSize systems in its offices in five countries. Information Technology Director Thomas Fenady says this allowed Activision to cut its travel budget by 20% and trim weeks off the game development cycle. Adena Regional Medical Center in Chillicothe, Ohio, has rigged up LifeSize systems for telemedicine, so its patients can be examined by experts at a larger hospital in Columbus. Business travelers could be the next big user base, says IDC analyst Nora Freedman. Hotel chains are likely to install lower-end systems so that road warriors can have more virtual face time with their families.

In your opinion, what caused the financial industry crisis? — Marc Lepage, Dudley, Mass.
 The list of possible culprits is long indeed: Congress, for overzealously pushing homeownership; the Fed, for keeping interest rates so low; predatory lenders, for taking advantage of unqualified and sometimes vulnerable home buyers; and home buyers, for getting in over their heads. The list goes on: the White House, for letting banking regs become too loose; finance executives, for selling products they didn't understand while enjoying outsized profits; mark-to-market accounting, for accelerating the downturn; rating agencies, for mischaracterizing paper; and short-selling hedge funds, for betting on doomsday—thereby ushering it in. It reminds us of Agatha Christie's Murder on the Orient Express. There was just one victim in the middle of the night, but plenty of passengers made strong suspects. And we'll even add another: the transformation of investment banks from private partnerships into publicly traded companies. That trend, which began in the mid-1980s because of a justifiable need for more capital in an expanding global economy, may have just played out its most unfortunate unintended consequence. Here's what we mean: In the old days, investment banks were owned and operated by partners putting much of their own wealth at risk. They were rewarded when business went well and personally felt the sting when it didn't. No wonder, then, that partners lived and breathed the risk profile of every significant trade, deal, and position. Then came the investment bank IPO parade, starting with Bear Stearns in '85 and ending with Goldman Sachs (GS) in '99. With every public offering, some partners cashed out. Those who remained kept the wheels moving, only with other people's money—and lots more of it. One of us (Jack) had a small, early taste of the impact when GE (GE) acquired investment bank Kidder Peabody in 1987. Although not technically an IPO, the deal had the same effect because of GE's enormous balance sheet. Less than two weeks after the close, a group of excited Kidder i-bankers showed up at Jack's office pitching a $400 million bridge loan to finance an oil-and-gas industry transaction, a high-risk deal they probably wouldn't have dared propose in their prior partnership. They got it, and after several other creative uses of GE's balance sheet, it became clear GE didn't have the expertise to manage an i-bank, and it sold Kidder in 1994. As shareholder-owned investment banks started taking on larger risks on larger positions, something else started getting larger, too—bonuses. The result was like Vegas on the Street. Working the same hours, at the same intensity, but now leveraging someone else's money instead of their own, anonymous financial engineers were suddenly carrying home  $5 million, $10 million, $20-plus million a year. To keep that game going, most took on ever more risk with ever more exotic instruments. And what if a deal or trade went bad? A smaller bonus, but without personal wealth on the table—so no downside. Is it any surprise that pricing risk in an appropriate manner went out the window? Now, we don't mean to peg the whole financial crisis on public i-banks. They're just another passenger on the Orient Express. But we mention them so that in the cleanup that's about to ensue, all "culprits" get their due. And without question, the out-of-whack compensation system on Wall Street should be dealt with as part of any government intervention. There has to be greater long-term alignment with shareowners. As for a cleanup, there will be one. This crisis is mind-numbing in its complexity and global scope, but previous meltdowns have proved that broken systems can be fixed by smart people. Hank Paulson, Ben Bernanke, and Tim Geithner fit that description. Ideology hasn't blinded them, and they've proved fast and flexible in anticipating a next move when a first one didn't do enough. We don't know how or when this crisis will end, but we have confidence that the team in charge will put the system back on the long road to better days.

R. David Yost is acutely aware of tougher times ahead for his customers. Consumers are cutting back on prescription drugs to save money and retailers are struggling with less demand. But the AmerisourceBergen chief isn't worried. The balance sheet of the drug distributor, which acts as a middleman between drugmakers and retailers, is strong. Besides, Yost has been tightening his belt for years. Even in an industry known for its razor-thin margins, Yost is remarkably cheap. He answers his own phone, flies economy class, and rarely strays beyond a shortie turkey hoagie with provolone from the local deli near his sterile industrial park headquarters in Valley Forge, Pa. Yost, 61, admits that his $66.1 billion company could absorb the cost of getting him extra secretarial help and a more comfortable seat on planes, but that's not the point. "The leader is very important in controlling business costs," says Yost, whose headquarters lobby is decorated with plastic plants to save on watering. While Yost's zeal to cut costs may strike some as absurd, his efforts have helped Amerisource thrive. And he thinks the current credit crisis won't swing the company off course. Not only has Amerisource held its own against rivals McKesson (MCK) and Cardinal Health (CAH), but leaner operations have helped it grow revenues 8% this year while the broader industry is growing half as fast. In the last quarter, Amerisource profits increased by 30%, excluding one-time sales; McKesson's and Cardinal's were up 8% and 13%, respectively. Yost's total paycheck last year (including stock options) was $4.8 million, less than half that of Cardinal's CEO and barely a sixth of McKesson's chief. "He is not flamboyant or flashy," says Banc of America Securities analyst Robert Willoughby, of Yost's inclination to be modest. Adds John W. Ransom of Raymond James & Associates: "At 1% margins, you have to be." Now he's under even more pressure to watch the bottom line as his customers struggle to stay competitive. Amerisource relies heavily on smaller, independent chains that are fast being gobbled by big players, who may have contracts with the distributor's rivals. But Yost predicts volume will pick up over the long term. "The older we get, the more drugs we take," says Yost, settling comfortably into a 1970s-era plaid chair (the weathered green leather chair at his desk, which he inherited from the previous CEO when he took over in 1997, looks like a yard sale find). George Barrett, the CEO of Cardinal's drug distribution arm, says that what matters in a leader isn't frugality but foresight. "I don't want our people to see me as cheap but instead very efficient and cognizant of the environment in which we compete," says Barrett. But Yost insists he can be all those things. While he pays competitive salaries to attract talent, he allows employees to fly business class only if they pay for an upgrade themselves. And they must book 30 days in advance to get the best price. Yost is also investing more than $100 million over the next three to five years to improve customer service technology, and he paid $400 million to spruce up company distribution centers and consolidate operations. Of course, new technology also brings new ways to save money. Plant employees now wear wrist bands connected to a thimble device on their finger that uses an infrared laser that reads the bar code of what they unload or pick up. Workers who move more product than average receive bonuses for the time they've saved the company. If that sounds Orwellian to some, Yost doesn't much care. While the Amerisource chief may not be eager to spend a buck, he certainly knows the value a dollar holds for others. Amerisource has returned more than a third of its free cash flow to shareholders for the last two years and used the rest for core acquisitions. "The landscape is littered with companies that think they can do a lot of businesses well," says Yost, adding that he no longer trots out the cliche "stick to our knitting" because he fears it makes him sound stodgy. "We're focused on knitting faster, better, and more creatively than anyone else."

Warren Buffett's mentor, legendary investor Benjamin Graham, wrote that when challenged "to distill the secret of sound investment into three words, we venture the motto, Margin of Safety." Those are wise words for all seasons, but especially at a time like this. Even after the Wall Street crisis dies down, households will remain under pressure to create their own margins of safety by saving more and borrowing less. Places to stash cash and hedge against risks like inflation and a weak dollar range from plain-vanilla Treasuries to certificates of deposit denominated in euros. All of the options below rely on the backing of the U.S. government rather than private-sector promises. The allure of safety was so strong late in the week of Sept. 15 that the yield on the three-month T-bill went negative at one point. That's right, below 0%. The yield is up, but investors are being paid less than 1% on their investment. That said, anyone tempted to go for a higher yield by buying the 10-year Treasury bond at 3.79%, or the 30-year at 4.37%, should think twice, with consumer inflation up 5.1% so far this year. "Treasury yields are stupidly low," says Robert Auwaerter, head of the fixed-income group at Vanguard Group. The fear over rising prices is why more investors are flocking to U.S. Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS). "The yield on long-term inflation-indexed bonds is around 2%," says Laurence Kotlikoff, head of the financial planning firm ESPlanner. "That's surely the place for those who must seek shelter from this storm." The bonds are available in 5-, 10-, and 20-year maturities. TIPS offer a fixed interest rate above inflation, as measured by the consumer price index. The bond's principal adjusts semiannually as the CPI changes. TIPS tend not to move in sync with other fixed-income securities, so they're a good diversifier. An additional advantage is that they protect against deflation, or a decline in the overall price level of goods and services. After all, Japan became known as Deflation Nation when its finance mania crashed in the late 1980s. Deflation also gripped the world economy during the Great Depression. TIPS offer a "deflation floor" that protects principal value if the fear of falling asset values turns into a deflationary episode. It guarantees the TIPS owner either the inflation-adjusted principal or the par value at maturity—whichever is greater. TIPS have one drawback: taxes. In essence, Uncle Sam requires owners in taxable accounts to pay income taxes on inflation-adjusted gains before getting any of the inflation-adjusted money at maturity. The trick to avoiding the tax hit is to own the bonds in a tax-deferred retirement savings account. Most major fund companies and financial firms offer a TIPS fund, such as the PIMCO Real Return Bond Fund and the iShares Lehman TIPS Bond (TIP). Taxes aren't an issue with I Savings Bonds, the federal government's other inflation-protected security. These 30-year bonds allow money to compound tax-deferred until they are cashed in. There are no commission costs. I bonds redeemed before five years forfeit the three most recent months' interest, but after that there is no penalty at redemption. At first glance, the rate on I bonds seems to be a joke. The fixed rate on I bonds bought before November of this year is 0% (the rate is announced every May and November). Any gain will come from adjustments in the CPI. Earlier this year the Treasury Dept. cut deeply into how much you can put away in I bonds. Savers can now buy $10,000 worth—$5,000 at treasurydirect.gov and $5,000 in paper bonds at a bank. Early in the week of Sept. 15, investors started a money fund version of a run on the bank. Nearly $200 billion cascaded out of money funds before stopping on Sept. 18 when the Treasury Dept. put the full faith and credit of the U.S. taxpayer behind the implicit "don't-break-the-buck" pledge at money funds. The principal value of money-market funds—including tax-exempt ones—is now guaranteed. Investors can earn a good yield and enjoy FDIC safety at online banks. At ING Direct (ING), for instance, a savings account pays 3% and a 12-month CD, 4%. No one with an account of $100,000 or less has lost a penny from a bank failure since the government's insurance fund was created in 1933. (Federal credit unions have their own backstop, the National Credit Union Shares Insurance Fund.) The $100,000 limit is something of a misnomer. It's relatively easy to park a multiple of that sum at the same bank and get it insured. For instance, a husband and wife can each have an account with $100,000 and an IRA holding a certificate of deposit worth $250,000, plus a joint account with $100,000 per spouse. That covers $900,000. The family could up the insured amount through revocable trust accounts, such as a payable-on-death (POD) trust that allows $100,000 per beneficiary. If the couple has three kids, the husband can have a $100,000 POD account with his wife as beneficiary; she can do the same with him. The couple can also have a $600,000 POD account with their kids as equal beneficiaries. According to the FDIC, an additional $800,000 is covered, for $1.7 million at one bank. One can open up accounts at different banks, but it may be easier to track multiple CDs by buying so-called brokered CDs. A broker will take, say, $1 million and buy 10 $100,000 CDs, each at a different bank. This keeps paperwork in one place. Most of us are focused on safety now, but there's also concern about the falling value of the dollar. Anyone worried about a weak dollar in the wake of the government's bailout might consider a currency-denominated CD. EverBank in Jacksonville, Fla., offers a euro CD that's FDIC-insured. The minimum is $10,000. As of Sept.24, a three-month euro CD yields 2.38% and a one-year euro CD, 2.75%.

Can 61 Nobel laureates help get Barack Obama elected? On Sept 25, these science luminaries released a letter saying that Obama is the best hope for “a visionary leader who can ensure the future of our traditional strengths in science and technology and who can harness those strengths to address many of our greatest problems: energy, disease, climate change, security, and economic competitiveness.”  Adds laureate Dr. Harold Varmus, president of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and former director of the National Institutes of Health: “There is very strong support for Obama among scientists. He shows a clear understanding of the importance of investing in science and technology.” That would be a sharp break from the Bush Administration, which demoted the traditional presidential science adviser, and is widely viewed as having ignored scientific evidence in everything from climate change to stem cell research. Under Bush, “U.S. science policy has been disastrous,” says MIT molecular biologist and Nobel laureate H. Robert Horvitz.

The warnings and elegies for the big-city newspaper have been done to the point of exhaustion, and I don't want to beat a breaking-down horse of a medium that I actually like. But the picture keeps worsening. Yearly ad falloffs at many such places are accelerating past 15%. At sundry recent points I've mistaken some twitch in the data for a market bottom, and each time I've had newspaper executives tell me I'm completely wrong. It's now time to start considering what was once unthinkable: the post-newspaper media economy in our nation's cities. Oh, O.K., fine, big-city dailies are not all going away tomorrow. And I'm not talking about newspapers in smaller towns or national dailies à la The Wall Street Journal or The New York Times. (While hardly immune to problems, both types face less gruesome environments.) But the big-city guys are shrinking, and quickly, in head count, revenue, and ambition. Executives have admitted that some papers may not publish on certain days of the week. McClatchy (MNI), which has a portfolio weighted to metro dailies, cut 1,400 jobs beginning in June and just announced plans to drop 1,150 more—and this comes after the company had already cut 13% of its mid-2006 head count. Family owners are throwing up their hands, hanging out For Sale signs on major newspapers amidst the worst selling environment in, perhaps, ever. ("If there was someone who wanted to buy newspapers and would pay a decent price, they could buy a lot," admits one executive familiar with media markets.) And remember: All these gears were in motion long before the current financial crisis hit. So who would profit from a disappearing newspaper? Local TV and cable, for starters. The city daily is still the biggest single media entity in virtually any market. Its main pitch to advertisers is brutally simple: We have more craniums to dent with your message than anyone else. After newspapers, TV "is the last mass-branding medium," says Gordon Borrell, CEO of local-media research firm Borrell Associates, and thus will snap up dollars that would have been newspapers'. And, while '08 will be lousy for local TV, no one expects any major stations to fall off the dial anytime soon. In the largest and most affluent cities—Los Angeles, San Francisco, New York, Chicago, Houston—look for the decline of the newspaper to strengthen the lighter-than-air free upscale glossy monthlies. For good or ill, the vacuous expanses of the likes of Niche Media's Gotham and Los Angeles Confidential, which are assembled with a very gentle hand for the very rich (or those who like to gawk at them), are well-positioned to suck up additional business from high-end retailers. I'd be more convinced that highly targeted variations of these magazines—like those aimed at local brides—would also flourish in a post-newspaper world, had informed executives not doubted there's enough local dollars for such entities. Which brings me to a disquieting conclusion. The obvious venues for all this displaced journalistic energy are a gazillion new independent online endeavors, be they individual blogs or bigger efforts like MinnPost.com. They will make for fascinating media ecosystems within individual cities, and some will become hits. It is much less certain whether ad dollars will follow. Ultracheap classifieds site craigslist has simply "destroyed revenue," says Dave Morgan, a former newspaper executive who founded behavioral targeting firm Tacoda, and revenue that no longer exists won't shift to new ventures. Others point out that key newspaper advertisers—local auto dealers and realtors, say—already have many outlets for ads online, not least of which are their own Web sites or national sites such as Cars.com that serve up targeted ads. For those sensing untapped riches in ads from pizzerias and dry cleaners, well, good luck, says Borrell. "Local is a very unorganized and dirty business," he says. "People look at local as this one-ton gorilla, but in fact it's 2,000 one-pound monkeys." And no publisher can afford to sit down with a city's 2,000 small fry to sell each a $50 ad. The bitterest pill of all for newspaper denizens is that, while nature abhors a vacuum and all that, in this case there may not even be one left to fill.

Wall Street's money has long fueled the nonprofit world. Lehman Brothers chief Richard S. Fuld Jr. favored New York's Museum of Modern Art and Middlebury College in his family foundation. Former American International Group (AIG) Chairman Maurice R. "Hank" Greenberg loved to support hospitals, libraries, and educational causes. Now that level of generosity could come to an abrupt end. Even those a step removed from the havoc are pulling back. Donald Bren, chairman of California real-estate giant Irvine Co., gave $380 million last year. After taking a hit from the housing downturn, his spokesperson says Bren has given less than $14 million so far this year. Banks were the second-largest corporate givers to U.S. nonprofits in 2007, according to the Conference Board, behind pharmaceutical companies. Finance houses such as Bear Stearns and Lehman were generous donors. Since the 1970s, Bear Stearns required senior employees to give 4% of their income to charity. Lehman Brothers gave $39 million to various causes last year—and that excludes additional millions donated by rich executives. The fallout is likely to spread far and wide. Linda Dunphy, who heads up Doorways for Women and Families, says her Arlington (Va.)-based group may have to close a shelter funded by the Freddie Mac (FRE) Foundation. Says Dunphy: "There's no one standing in the wings to take their place." The financial sector's woes add more hardship to a year in which corporate giving already has been squeezed, notes Sandra Miniutti of nonprofit watchdog Charity Navigator. "Individuals have less money to give, foundations distribute fewer grants, and corporations make less profit," she explains. The staff of Jawonio, a New City, N.Y. nonprofit that provides services to the disabled, is already coping with an ever-tighter budget. With private donors taking a fresh hit, Jeff Kassover, director of development, is so desperate to cut costs that he has removed two of the eight fluorescent lights over his desk to save on energy costs. "The pie is only so big," he says. Among the hardest hit are charities that had found favor with AIG's Greenberg. Along with chairing the Starr Foundation, he had given out $700 million through his family foundation. Now, Greenberg says, his foundation will "continue to exist, but in a very modest way." While Starr saw as much as $600 million worth of AIG stock essentially wiped out (it won't disclose actual losses), it had reduced AIG shares to roughly 20% of total assets in recent months, from 97.7% of assets last year. Starr canceled an annual $350,000 grant, which supports food banks and shelters through Washington-based Community Foundation for the National Capital Region. Says Terri Lee Freeman, the foundation's president: "We're trying to figure out where we're going to make up those dollars from." Financiers such as energy tycoon T. Boone Pickens, who has lost $270 million personally in the crisis, are closing up their wallets, too. Pickens typically makes annual donations in the $200 million range but has given just $3.7 million so far this year, according to Jay Rosser of BP Capital Management, Pickens' investment firm. More is expected later this year, says Rosser, but contributions will be "significantly less." Faced with diminishing resources in a time of mounting need, some charities are turning to an activity that some of their recipients know all too well: taking out loans. American Red Cross spokesman Jonathan Aiken says the disaster relief group has no choice, given the need to help hurricane victims, who have received scanty attention amid the financial turmoil. "We are in a cycle of spending where we don't have money, but we have to supply services," says Aiken. "We have to get it somewhere, so we end up borrowing and spending."

One company is working on a treatment for blindness. Another hopes to conquer paralysis in patients with spinal cord injuries. And both are counting on the next U.S. President to bail them out of serious financial difficulties. These two publicly held companies—Advanced Cell Technology (ACT) (ACTC.PK) and Geron (GERN)—are studying stem cells derived from donated human embryos, and federal funding for research in this area has all but dried up as a result of restrictions imposed by the Bush Administration. The lack of government support has cast a pall over the field of embryonic stem cell research, prompting other investors to stay away. That's making it difficult for the companies to continue their research. "I don't know how much longer we can hang in there," says Dr. Robert Lanza, ACT's chief scientific officer. ACT has shown that embryonic stem cells can restore some sight in rats with degenerative retinal disease, but it has put the project on hold for lack of money. On Sept. 9, ACT closed two offices and began looking for financing partners. Geron has made a product from embryonic stem cells that allows rats with spinal cord injuries to regain some movement. But in May, the Food & Drug Administration said it was not yet ready to green-light human trials. "We don't have a shred of evidence it's political," says CEO Thomas B. Okarma. He says the main issue is a general dearth of data on embryonic stem cells. Geron's stock has fallen from 70 to 4 since 2000. ACT's shares are languishing at 6 cents. Embryonic stem cells possess the power to become any tissue or organ in the body. This could give them therapeutic power for a range of diseases. But the controversy that has erupted over their source—human embryos—has made the cells a terrible business proposition. Over the past five years the National Institutes of Health has awarded $186 million in grants for embryonic stem cell research, vs. $1 billion it has given to scientists studying "adult" stem cells from sources such as skin and blood. Whether a new President will improve the funding prospects for embryonic stem cells is an open question, because the two candidates have been noncommittal on the issue. But both appear to agree that at least some of the funding restrictions should be lifted. In 2007, Senators Obama and McCain voted in favor of the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, which would expand beyond the 21 varieties of embryonic stem cells that can be studied with federal money. President George W. Bush vetoed the bill. Some scientists worry that advances in adult stem cells could leave the impression that the embryonic variety is unnecessary. Several research groups have recently created stem cells from grown patients, then reprogrammed them to be "pluripotent," meaning they could grow into any type of body tissue. While such cells will enable scientists to study how diseases develop, their therapeutic potential is unclear. Says Stanford University professor Irving L. Weissman, "This is one of the hottest areas of science. But to say 'Now we don't need to do embryonic stem cell research' would be wrong." Join a debate about using animals in medical experiments.

To advocates, they're a necessary part of managing risk. To critics, they're a financial roadside bomb. They're invisible, unregulated, and largely untraceable, at least until they blow up. They're credit default swaps (CDS), and they're at the heart of the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers (LEH) and the bailout of insurer AIG (AIG). Odds are they're lurking somewhere in your portfolio. To help you assess whether you're exposed to swaps and what it could mean if you are, here's the lowdown on what they are and how they work. What are credit default swaps?They're insurance for bonds. Just as drivers buy insurance to cover the costs of a crash, bond owners buy swaps to protect themselves in case a company can't pay its debt. But unlike traditional buyers of insurance, financial institutions can insure a bond even if they don't own it (imagine buying an auto policy on a friend's new sports car and collecting the cash when he wrecks it). This kind of speculation has pushed the value of outstanding CDS to $58 trillion, a number that dwarfs the $6.2 trillion in outstanding U.S. corporate debt. What do credit default swaps have to do with my investments?Nine of the largest taxable bond funds in Morningstar's (MORN) database—and nearly 10% of all the taxable bond funds it tracks—list swaps in their portfolios. That includes funds from companies such as Pimco, Vanguard Group, Fidelity Investments, and T. Rowe Price (TROW). What are the risks?For starters, CDS don't trade on exchanges. Each is a privately negotiated contract, with the buyer of protection paying monthly or quarterly premiums to the seller. Exiting a position requires a new contract—not always easy to get when financial companies are zealously guarding their balance sheets. Then there's the risk that the holder of a swap will need to put up more collateral. When selling insurance, companies must put up enough assets to cover the current liability. If a bond trades at 95 cents on the dollar, the fund would be required only to post the difference: 5 cents for every dollar. But with prices moving by leaps and bounds, 5 cents can quickly become 50 cents.  Managers could be forced to dump assets to raise collateral. Finally, there's the danger that the company on the other side of the contract won't pay up, known as counterparty risk. Standard insurance companies are regulated to make sure they can meet obligations. No such oversight exists for swaps. Mutual funds say they research partners to reduce counterparty risk, but there's fear in the market that an insurance seller won't have the capital to pony up, starting a chain reaction that ripples through the entire swap market." Credit default swaps are the last bubble," asserts risk analyst Christopher Whalen of Institutional Risk Analytics. Why would my fund own swaps?Some use them to insure their bonds. Others use them to boost returns by pairing a swap with other bonds. They're also used for fine-tuning. As market conditions change, managers buy and sell bonds, modifying everything from the average length of time until its bonds expire to sector exposure. But a swap that replicates the features of the desired bond could act as a cheaper alternative. "Swaps are an integral part of good risk management," says Pimco CEO Mohamed El-Erian. "They allow you to position the portfolio in a much more refined process." How do I know if my fund uses swaps?It's not easy. The usual sources of information, such as Morningstar and Lipper, don't include derivative exposure. While the Securities & Exchange Commission doesn't require every single fund to disclose its use of swaps, there's a good chance the information will be in SEC documents if credit default swaps are an important part of the fund's strategy. Intrepid investors should dig into the fund's prospectus and the holdings listed in its Form NQ, which managers file with the SEC (you can find it at sec.gov). But an NQ is a snapshot of the portfolio on a single day, not a real-time view, warns Edwin Elton, Nomura professor of finance at New York University's Stern School of Business. Should I sell my funds that have swaps?Some advisers think so. Roundview Capital's Stephen Shueh, a Princeton, N.J., financial adviser and devotee of Warren Buffett, won't invest in anything that he can't quantify. "If I can't handicap the risks, then I would just as soon avoid it," he says. Others take a more nuanced view. "If used in the wrong way, they're risky," says Michael Walther, a financial adviser with Balasa Dinverno Foltz in Itasca, Ill. "If used properly, they mitigate risk and cut down on volatility." Of course, investors may have a tough time distinguishing between the ways swaps are used. Listening in to your fund's conference calls can provide a glimpse of its strategy. And managers who have their own money invested in a fund are less likely to take unreasonable risks. Financial adviser Lawrence Glazer of Boston-based Mayflower Advisors thinks that having more than 5% of a fund's assets in swaps or other derivatives is a red flag. "Don't be complacent," says Glazer. "If you are uncomfortable with something, it's O.K. to make a change."

Editor's Rating: The Good: An illuminating look at the audacious search giant. The Bad: With a slim 200 pages of text, this volume is hardly comprehensive. The Bottom Line: Ably delivers the story of how Google arrived at a position of immense power. 
Planet Google:One Company's Audacious Planto Organize Everything We KnowBy Randall StrossFree Press; 275 pp.; $26
 The challenge facing anyone who writes about Google (GOOG) is that readers may assume they already know all that can be said about the Internet search giant. After all, the 10-year-old juggernaut has been the subject of many thousands of press reports and at least two mainstream books. But to his credit, in Planet Google: One Company's Audacious Plan to Organize Everything We Know, author Randall Stross digs beneath the usual Googley tales of lava lamps and free gourmet food for employees to offer new insight into the company's pointedly unorthodox business practices. At a slim 200 pages, not counting notes and index, Planet Google isn't comprehensive. Yet Stross, a New York Times columnist and San Jose State University business professor, dives in far enough to illuminate the method and singleminded madness behind Google's mission to "organize the world's information." It's difficult now to imagine a world without Google. But Stross, a keen observer of the corporate tech scene in such previous books as eBoys, which looked at venture capitalists, reveals that the search giant's rise was far from inevitable. Just after joining Google in 1999, Marissa Mayer, now vice-president for search products and user experience, discovered co-founder Larry Page hiding in a kitchen while the site was down, seemingly unable to confront the problem. Mayer decided then that the company had only a 2% chance of succeeding. But it turned out Google had come along at the right time: The World Wide Web was exploding, and new methods were needed to sift through all of its information. Google's search wizards also made the most of their timing. With an innovative approach to using cheap computers, writes Stross, "they assembled a computing infrastructure that effectively permitted Google to move in many directions simultaneously, without worrying that they would run out of horsepower." And precisely because the company charges nothing for most of its services, which range from e-mail to video sharing, those services grow popular fast and bolster Google's mainstay search-advertising business. "The great irony is that their shunning of conventional cost-accounting considerations," with free spending on infrastructure and more, "has enabled the rapid emergence of one of the most profitable businesses of the modern era," writes Stross. That has enabled Google to thrive despite a number of stumbles. When it tried to use its exalted algorithm—the formula by which it delivers relevant search results—on its Google News service, it fell far short of the efforts of human editors at sites such as Yahoo! (YHOO) News. "In this case, algorithm met humanity, and humanity won," notes Stross. Nor has Google found a way to make significant money from big bets such as its enormously popular YouTube video-sharing site. But if such failures have scarcely affected Google's growth, it now faces new challenges. YouTube and other initiatives, such as a massive book-scanning project, antagonized potential media partners, who accuse it of violating copyrights. Privacy concerns have dogged services such as its e-mail offering, which targets ads to the content of messages, and Google Street View, which offers detailed ground-level photos of many cities. And Stross shows how Google's sometimes cavalier attitude has led to a backlash. "When a single company is determined to organize the world's information, including one's very own personal information," he asks, "will the service be welcomed more than feared?" It's unfortunate that Stross, who interviewed CEO Eric Schmidt but not co-founders Page and Sergey Brin, doesn't give a clearer answer to that question. Pushback against Google's increasing power is now the company's key challenge. Today, for instance, Google, which commands at least 63% of Internet search queries, faces intense antitrust scrutiny over an ad deal it announced last June with distant No. 2 search provider Yahoo. Another significant omission from the book: an exploration of the methodology of Google's awesome ad business, where a cloak of secrecy has rankled advertisers. Despite those shortcomings, Planet Google ably delivers the story of how Google so quickly reached a position of such power that it now must figure out how to wield it more wisely.

Italy's S&P/MIB Index rose for the first time this week, adding 98, or 0.4 percent, to 27,165. Futures expiring in December increased 157, or 0.6 percent, to 27,380. The following were among the most active stocks on the Italian market today. Share symbols are in parentheses.

Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP extinguished a fire that shut its Pasadena oil terminal near Houston and caused at least one pipeline company to cut capacity to the western U.S. The terminal may take 24 to 48 hours to resume operations, said Emily Thompson, a Kinder Morgan spokeswoman, in a telephone interview. The Pasadena terminal connects about 35 pipeline systems, linking them with at least six Gulf Coast refineries.

The following companies had unusual price changes in Canadian trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are as of 5 p.m. in Toronto. The Standard & Poor's/TSX Composite Index slipped 0.2 percent to 12,513.36.

Blue Water Automotive Systems Inc., the bankrupt auto-parts maker that failed twice to sell itself, won court approval of a plan to liquidate its remaining assets and start repaying its biggest creditor, lender CIT Group Inc. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Marci McIvor yesterday approved the plan in Detroit, over objections from General Motors Corp., a creditor and customer that claimed Blue Water tried to ``cram through'' financing changes at the last minute. Blue Water's last operating plant will cease operations on Sept. 26.

Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson, reversing his position, said he would accept limits on executive compensation in his proposed $700 billion rescue plan for the banking industry after an outcry from lawmakers. ``The American people are angry about executive compensation and rightfully so,'' Paulson told the House Financial Services Committee today, departing from his prepared remarks. ``We must find a way to address this in the legislation, but without undermining the effectiveness of this program.''

Rich Battista, the former chief executive officer of Gemstar-TV Guide International, rejoined News Corp. as president of Fox's national cable networks, overseeing channels including FX and Speed. Battista ran Gemstar from 2004 to 2008 and revamped TV Guide's digital strategy, leading to Gemstar's sale to Macrovision Solutions Corp., New York-based News Corp said in a statement today. Battista previously managed business development of Fox Entertainment Group, his boss Tony Vinciquerra, chairman of Fox Networks Group, said in the statement.

China pulled more than 7,000 metric tons of dairy products from shelves as the nation's new quality regulator pledged ``forceful'' measures to tackle chemical contamination that's killed four infants and sickened 53,000. Authorities seized 4,247 tons of milk powder and 1,562 tons of liquid milk laced with melamine, the official Xinhua News Agency said. The Philippines today banned Chinese dairy imports, adding to restrictions in 15 other countries and markets.

Italy's S&P/MIB Index fell for a third day, losing 138, or 0.5 percent, to 26,929. Futures expiring in December declined 43, or 0.2 percent, to 27,180. The following were among the most active stocks on the Italian market today. Share symbols are in parentheses.

A leader’s job is usually to guide others toward a vision of a greater tomorrow. Yet when things are going poorly in the here and now, a good leader moves to manager mode, and tackles the practical head-on. It’s critical to take a no-holds-barred look at your people, one by one, starting with yourself: Are they in the right job or role for who they really are? Are they fired up, and if so, what was it that got them fired up? How do they learn most effectively? Answer these questions and you’ll know who is helping, hindering, or having no impact on the businesses’ goals. Based on what you discover, be a leader with the courage to change, make changes, and coach your people to work at the best of their abilities. 
David Peck
      President
      Leadership Unleashed
      Palm Springs, Calif.

The following companies may have unusual price changes today in Latin America trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are from the previous close. Preferred shares are usually the most-traded class of stock in Brazil. The MSCI Latin America Index fell 4.1 percent yesterday to 3,346.66.

London Stock Exchange Group Plc said SIS x-clear will compete with LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. as a second central counterparty for U.K. stocks, stopping short of bringing its own clearing unit to London. LSE, which acquired trade processing units, Monte Titoli SpA and Cassa di Compensazione & Garanzia with its 2007 purchase of Borsa Italiana SpA, had been mulling changes to its post-trade strategy. Rival exchanges including Deutsche Boerse AG and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange make money from post-trade services. NYSE Euronext also plans to profit from trade processing.

The following is a list of companies whose shares may have unusual price changes in U.K. and Irish markets today. Stock symbols are in parentheses and prices are from the last market close. The benchmark FTSE 100 Index fell 100.14, or 1.9 percent, to

Toyota Motor Corp., expanding its line of alternatively powered cars beyond Prius, will unveil a Camry Hybrid in November fueled by compressed natural gas rather than gasoline amid expectations of rising oil prices. The CNG Camry will be shown at the Los Angeles Auto Show, Toyota executives told reporters at a conference in Portland, Oregon, yesterday. There are currently no plans to offer the concept vehicle to consumers, spokesman John Hanson said. The show opens to the press Nov. 19.

Frank Raiter says his former employer, Standard & Poor's, placed a ``For Sale'' sign on its reputation on March 20, 2001. That day, a member of an S&P executive committee ordered him, the company's top mortgage official, to grade a real estate investment he'd never reviewed. S&P was competing for fees on a $484 million deal called Pinstripe I CDO Ltd., Raiter says. Pinstripe was one of the new structured-finance products driving Wall Street's growth. It would buy mortgage securities that only an S&P competitor had analyzed; piggybacking on the rating violated company policy, according to internal e-mails reviewed by Bloomberg.

Chrysler, which for months has been fending off chatter that it is only financially treading water until it can be sold to a foreign automaker, unveiled three electric vehicles on Tuesday, the first of which the company says will be offered to consumers in 2010. Chrysler's announcement and unveiling comes a week after General Motors (GM) showed the production version of its Volt extended-range electric vehicle (BusinessWeek.com, 9/16/08), and on a day when lawmakers in Washington are deliberating whether or not to grant Detroit automakers up to $25 billion in government-backed loans.

The following companies had unusual price changes in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are as of 4 p.m. in New York. Makers of alternative-energy equipment gained after the U.S. Senate passed a bill that would extend tax credits on solar power installations through 2016.

Ecuadorean President Rafael Correa said the government may default on a loan of more than $200 million owed to Brazil's state development bank that's linked to Odebrecht SA, a Brazilian construction company he expelled from the country yesterday in a dispute over a power plant. The loan by the BNDES, as the bank is known, was for the year-old, $338 million San Francisco hydroelectric plant built by Odebrecht, Correa said today. The plant had to be shut down in August due to damages to tunnels and turbines. Correa blamed Odebrecht for the problems and canceled $800 million in infrastructure contracts the Brazilian company had in Ecuador.

U.K. stocks fell for a third day, led by banks on concern the U.S. Congress will hold up a $700 bank bailout plan. Lonmin Plc retreated 1.1 percent after the Financial Times reported Xstrata Plc may not proceed with a formal 5 billion-pound ($9.3-billion) offer for the platinum producer.

Back in January, as world markets continued their descent into full-blown nervous breakdown, Russia appeared a hopeful stalwart amid the fall. The first few days of trading saw Moscow's benchmark RTS Index up nearly a percentage point—just as the S & P 500 tumbled and once robust emerging Central European markets limped to their worst historical starts. Many analysts—including a few cited previously in this column—saw the RTS growing more than 30 percent to top 3,000 points by year's end and picked Russia as the place to invest in 2008.

Societe Generale told clients to sell call options in Nokia Oyj on concern there is ``still danger of worse to come'' for the world's biggest maker of mobile phones as demand weakens and competition increases. The brokerage advised selling call options expiring in December at a strike price of 15 euros after the price of the contracts soared. Investors will profit as long as the shares don't rise above 15.74 euros -- the strike price plus 74 cent cost of the contract -- it said. The shares dropped 1.4 percent to 13.61 euros in Helsinki today, a four-day low.

Rafael van der Vaart got three goals as defending champion Real Madrid beat last-place Sporting Gijon 7-1 in Spanish soccer's Primera Liga today. Inter Milan beat Lecce 1-0 in Italy's Serie A. Raul scored twice, while Gonzalo Higuain and Arjen Robben also got goals against Gijon, which lost 6-1 to Barcelona at the weekend. Madrid climbs to second spot following its third straight league win.

When Brad Cloepfil, AIA, founder and principal at Allied Works Architecture, unveiled his design for the Museum of Arts and Design in New York, he added fuel to a heated and unusual preservation debate. His plan to alter a 158-foot marble edifice on the south side of Columbus Circle prompted some preservationists to rally behind an exemplary, but widely disliked work of late Modernism. Two Columbus Circle was built in 1964 and designed by Edward Durrell Stone for the short-lived Huntington Hartford Museum. Critics tore into the monolith when it was completed, one of them dismissively referring to it as the "lollipop building" for its geometric colonnade.

Anyone who thinks the blogosphere isn't big hasn't been paying attention. Blogging has moved far beyond a hobbyist phenomenon and proved itself a legitimate news force and shaper of opinion. Homeowners are swarming finance blogs for information on the financial crisis. During Microsoft's (MSFT) battle for Yahoo! (YHOO), blogs drove the news coverage, stock prices, and even analyst reports. Voters are learning as much about the Presidential race from DailyKos, Drudge Report, and Talking Points Memo as they are from cable TV. Bloggers Arianna Huffington and Michael Arrington are among Time's 100 Most Influential People, and their respective mini media empires are now worth $100 million or more, according to industry estimates.

Light gun shooters aren't as popular as they used to be, but the genre's seen a renaissance on Wii, thanks to such games as Resident Evil: The Umbrella Chronicles, Ghost Squad and The House of the Dead 2&3 Return. Now Sega's back with more zombie madness with The House the Dead: Overkill, a Wii exclusive monster mash starring everyone's favorite brain eaters. With plenty of headshots, gore and a nice layer of cheese, this will likely be a fine addition to the popular franchise. Overkill is actually a prequel to the original game. You play as Special Agent G who, along with his partner Detective Washington, goes to investigate strange happenings in a small Louisiana town. However, Sega gave this game a much different appearance than the predecessors, opting to go with a visual style ripped from Quentin Tarantino and Robert Rodriguez's film, Grindhouse. You'll see things through a grainy filter that makes the game resemble a movie from the 60s and 70s. This includes smudges on the screen and other stuff to give House of the Dead that old school vibe.

Once upon a time, you had to eat your lunch early in Paris or not at all. By 12.30pm, the tables in all the decent, affordable restaurants were taken. If you were late, you had the choice between the doubtful, unswept brasserie on the corner, a McDonald's or something even more unFrench, a sandwich at your desk. No longer. All over Paris—all over France—restaurant tables are standing empty. The takings of French restaurants and cafés have plunged by 20 per cent this year. Nearly 3,000 restaurants and cafés have gone bust in the first half of 2008—a 30 per cent increase on the same period last year.

Warren Buffett has powerful coattails. Within 14 hours of Buffett's ride to the rescue of Goldman Sachs (GS), with a $5 billion cash infusion and warm praise for the struggling investment banking titan, Goldman on Sept. 24 found other investors to snap up $5 billion worth of its stock. The outfit's rapid-fire stock offering, for 40.65 million shares at $123 each, raised twice what Goldman managers originally expected. But the deal is hardly a glowing statement about Goldman's health and upbeat prospects. Some analysts say both the Buffett investment and the offering are highly costly to the firm, which is likely to be facing years of trouble, retrenchment, and subpar returns as it struggles through the financial crisis. Looking at the stock offering, Oppenheimer (OPY) analyst Meredith Whitney told clients in a note, "For GS, the blue chip of financials, the terms of this deal seem exorbitantly expensive and provide insight into how truly challenging current market conditions are."

The European Parliament's environment committee may ease planned caps on carbon dioxide from cars in 2012 by excluding 30 percent of the fleet and almost halving the penalties, bowing to German demands for relief. Compromise proposals by leading members of the committee in the European Union assembly would impose the emission curbs on 70 percent of the new car fleet in 2012 and 2013, 80 percent in 2014 and 100 percent beginning in 2015. The European Commission, the EU's regulatory arm, proposed introducing the caps on all new cars sold in the region in 2012.

The idea of the Internet-enabled home appliance has been around since the heady days of the dot-com boom, when LG introduced its DIOS refrigerator and Sun Microsystems' Scott McNealy paired a tablet PC with a Whirlpool fridge. But LG's "market leader," which sold for $10,000, is no longer being made, while similar products from the likes of Samsung never even saw the light of day. Such devices have yet to become ubiquitous in the home because, well, who really needs the Internet on their fridge? Surprisingly, the answer just might be: you. Tomorrow's Internet-enabled appliances go beyond the glitzy LCD screens and digital shopping lists; in some cases they may even forgo that kind of luxury bling altogether. Instead, these networked home appliances are wired to help consumers save energy and money.

Equity funds in China posted an average loss of 12.21% in August in line with sharp falls in global markets worldwide, a turnaround from an average gain of 2.04% in July, according to Lipper data. That brings the equity funds' performance for the first eight months of 2008 to an average loss of 49.32%. Qualified domestic institutional investor (QDII) funds were also in negative territory, but managed to outperform equity funds in China by posting an average loss of 3.71%. That brings the QDII funds' average loss for the first seven months of this year to 24.94%. The QDII programme allows institutional investors to move funds overseas as part of the liberalisation of China's capital account.

While high-profile U.S. companies like Microsoft (MSFT), Hewlett-Packard (HPQ), and Nike (NKE) have boosted their stock buyback plans in recent days amid elevated stock-market volatility, repurchase activity actually slowed considerably in the most recent quarter. Based on preliminary results of analysis conducted by Standard & Poor's Index Services, stock buyback activity for companies in the large-cap S&P 500 index eased at a significant pace during the second quarter of 2008, posting its lowest level since the third quarter of 2005. The analysis showed that S&P 500 companies are set to post $87.9 billion in stock buybacks during the second quarter, representing a 44.3% decline from the $157.8 billion spent during the second quarter of 2007.

With public sentiment casting the Bush Administration's plan to resolve the financial crisis as a bailout for the firms that caused it, Senate Banking Committee members took turns grilling Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and Federal Reserve Board Chairman Ben Bernanke at a hearing on Sept. 23. Behind the scenes, however, many expected nuts-and-bolts negotiation to yield a compromise bill, perhaps over the weekend if not by Friday's scheduled adjournment. Agreement was already coalescing to require some restrictions on executive pay at companies that sell toxic assets to the Treasury, one financial-industry official said. The theater playing out on Capitol Hill on Tuesday reflected deeply held positions on the role of government and the economy, but with an eye toward how events would play out politically. Polls failed to give a clear picture of just how much support there is for Congress to act: Support ranged from 25% to 56% in different polls.

Nearly a year ago, NBC Universal and News Corp. (NWS) launched a video site called Hulu. The Web cognoscenti scoffed at two Old Media dinosaurs taking on YouTube. But the derision has abated of late. Thanks to a huge library, Hulu is attracting millions of viewers and signing up advertisers like Bank of America (BAC), Best Buy (BBY), and Nissan. In effect, NBCU and News Corp. gambled that people are willing to watch full-length TV shows and movies online. In the Age of YouTube (GOOG), that's a contrarian position. The Web video king has become ubiquitous with clips rarely more than five minutes long. You won't find choppy videos of kids playing Metallica guitar solos or pirated TV shows on Hulu. Everything is legally obtained and made in Hollywood: 4,000 hours so far of content—including clips and full versions of TV shows (from Lou Grant to Family Guy) and classic movies (from In the Heat of the Night to Jerry Maguire). It's a bid for advertisers leery of the often outré offerings on YouTube, which does not feature the lucrative 15- to  30-second commercials Hulu places before or during TV shows and movies. Hulu did something else unusual. Rather than forcing people to come to its site, it cut deals with portals like AOL (TWX), Comcast (CMCSA), MSN (MSFT), and Yahoo! (YHOO) to show Hulu-branded video on their sites. In August, according to Nielsen Online, Hulu exceeded 100 million video streams for the second month in a row. That puts Hulu a distant second to YouTube, which had 4.7 billion streams in August. Advertisers also have taken note that a prized demographic of viewers aged 18-44 seem comfortable watching long-form video online. Hulu users on average spent 256 minutes in August watching videos, up from 169 minutes in July. That was the longest time spent among all Web brands, according to Nielsen. "Now that's an engaged viewer," says Robert D'Asaro, a digital advertising strategist at media-buying firm OMD. Not "somebody bouncing from clip to clip on YouTube." Ad buyers say that for full TV episodes Hulu is charging three times more per CPM—the cost per 1,000 viewer impressions— than broadcast networks. Is Hulu making money? Likely not. The site shares revenues with the portals and the studios that make the shows. And Hulu can't offer advertisers global reach because it hasn't yet cut deals with the studios to run shows overseas. "All I can say is that we're well ahead of plan," says CEO Jason Kilar. In the meantime, Kilar, a former Amazon (AMZN) executive, is looking for ways to make Hulu more compelling to users and advertisers alike. Viewers can now choose what product they want to see from a particular advertiser. For example, by clicking a button they can opt for a Nissan ad touting a sports car rather than a minivan. Another option: watching a two-minute movie trailer before a show rather than ads during the program. Kilar says companies besides Hollywood studios will soon be able to put longer ads before videos. Hulu is also giving advertisers a glimpse of who is watching what videos. "We can tell them what kind of person is watching these seven shows, for example," Kilar says, insisting that viewers' privacy is sacrosanct. One Hulu fan wrote recently that the elegant site and eclectic array of shows and movies made her "head explode in a brain spray of awesome." It doesn't hurt that Hulu runs maybe two to five minutes of ads per hour, vs. about  16 minutes on TV. The question is whether Kilar & Co. can afford to keep it that way—and make money.

On a recent morning at the Woodbury Commons Outlet mall an hour north of New York City, Carissa Nava is looking over a red wraparound dress by Diane Von Furstenberg at the Saks Fifth Avenue Off Fifth store. The dress retails for $365 at Saks' main store on in New York, but here it is selling for $126.99. Nava, a pharmaceutical sales rep who lives in Manhattan, makes regular trips to Saks' flagship store on Fifth Avenue—sometimes to buy, but often just to check out the selection of big-name apparel. Then, at the earliest chance, she drives up to the Saks outlet to pick those items up at a significant discount. "I only wear Seven or True Religion jeans, and I get them here for $149," she says. "Why would I pay $216 for the same exact ones at the main store?"

Thousands of authors write business books every year but only a handful reach star status and the A-list lecture circuit. Fewer still—one, to be exact—can boast his own action figure. Last December, the Seth Godin Marketing Guru, a 5-inch plastic likeness of the well-known marketing maven, joined a line of similar kitschy collectibles that includes Einstein, Mozart, and a popular Seattle librarian named Nancy Pearl. In the nearly 10 years since his first best-seller, Godin has become a marketing phenom with a string of titles, including Purple Cow, Unleashing the Ideavirus, and his newest, Tribes—written at a pace of almost one per year (not counting e-books). But Godin didn't reach guru status through his books alone. A five-year stint as a columnist for the magazine Fast Company helped raise his profile, and his blog, sethgodin.typepad.com, which consistently ranks in Web-tracker Technorati's top 20, helped him reach beyond business readers. Across these media, Godin delivers his combination of counterintuitive thinking and a great sense of fun. "He's a born entertainer," says author and consultant Tom Peters.

After an Osaka-based company was found early this month to have sold tons of tainted rice illegally for human consumption, Noriko Takada thought "Not again!" A series of food scandals, such as the fraudulent labeling of meat and sale of food after its use-by date, have convinced the 48-year-old Tokyo housewife that "people in the food industry care little about consumers' safety and more about making profits." "I love senbei [rice crackers] so much that it's possible I have eaten some made from tainted rice." Even as China's tainted-milk scandal (BusinessWeek.com, 9/22/08) continues to spread, Japanese consumers like Takada worried about a food scare closer to home. Early this month, Mikasa Foods, a rice wholesaler in Osaka, admitted that it purchased a batch of contaminated rice from the government meant to be sold only as an inedible product for industry use. Mikasa then sold it to hundreds of companies across Japan to boost profits. The rice went into sake, shochu (distilled spirit), and rice crackers. Contaminated rice also went to more than 100 hospitals, homes for the elderly, and at least 46 schools.

Apple Inc. tends to prove unstoppable even when other computer makers falter. In the most recent quarter, shipments of Macs surged 41%. That's nearly three times the 15% global growth rate for PCs in general. But in the current quarter, as markets slide, banks go belly-up, and consumer confidence plunges, even the Apple (AAPL) growth engine may hit speed bumps, say some analysts who are revisiting their estimates just a month before Apple is due to report quarterly earnings for the period that ends Sept. 30. Concerns, including slumping demand for laptops and a strengthening dollar, helped drive down Apple's shares more than 29%, to 126.84, on Sept. 23 from 179.32 on Aug. 14.

Economic growth worldwide has slowed in 2008 because to some degree, high oil prices and recession in the U.S. have affected most industrial countries. Although the global economy will probably manage to avoid a recession, it is unlikely to improve in 2009 after a year of uncertainty in financial markets and escalating commodity prices. Cooler performance in the U.S.—the single biggest national economy—hasn't shut down other countries the way it often did in the past. But weak conditions in the U.S., together with higher commodity prices, have nonetheless started to squeeze economies abroad in varying degree. Despite fears of recession and sharp swings in oil prices and financial markets, the global economy will grow 3% in 2008 and 2.8% in 2009, below the 3.8% average over the last four years.

As the world absorbed the magnitude of the U.S. financial crisis, BusinessWeek reporters around the world fanned out to gauge opinion. The big surprise: From Middle East financiers to Paris taxi drivers, people abroad draw a distinction between the excesses of Wall Street and the entrepreneurial spirit of the rest of the country. America retains its reputation as a (slightly tarnished) beacon of free enterprise. Here are excerpts from what people told us: Thomas Naughton, chief investment officer for equities at PMA Investment Advisors in Hong Kong:The U.S. financial system as a role model for developing countries, that's gone. But the perception of the U.S. in Asia is still very strong. People want to go there to study, they want to work at U.S. companies, they want to sell in the U.S. market. Outside the financial sector, corporate America is in good shape. [But] now we're seeing the rise of India, China, Russia. The world is much more multilateral.

By Theo Francis Talks among key players — both parties in Senate and House, as well  
      as Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke —  
      broke off for the night a little after 10 p.m. without a deal, we’re told. Plans are to talk again in the morning. (Here’s our full story on the day’s many and downs on www.businessweek.com.)

S&P MAINTAINS HOLD RECOMMENDATION ON SHARES OF GOLDMAN SACHS (GS; 125.05): Berkshire Hathaway (BRKA;  12,8800.00) will buy $5 billion in GS callable perpetual preferred shares and will receive warrants to buy $5 billion in common shares for $115 each over a 5-year term. The preferred shares will have a 10% coupon. GS also plans to raise $2.5 billion in a separate public common stock offering. While these moves signal a rise in the cost of capital, we see them providing a much needed sign of confidence in GS, and the capital raised should immediately help with the company's planned deleveraging. We expect GS shares to open higher, but we would not add to positions. -M. Albrecht

Pure is all about adrenaline-pumping off-road racing action. Its gameplay is simple yet immensely entertaining, with plenty of speed and tricks. The visuals will blow you away, whether you blaze through Thailand or soar over Italian ruins. The soundtrack is typical alternative rock, backed by authentic racing effects. In addition, there are 12 tracks and a somewhat meager single-player campaign, but also unbeatable online play for up to 16 people. Aside from simple bike customization, Pure rises above the competition.

Kirby Super Star Ultra for DS is anything but out of this world. Nintendo's watered down mish mash of platform adventuring and touch screen minigames features the age-old lovable Kirby action, but none of these modes last long enough to enjoy. The result is a sampling of different styles of play that include racing and treasure collecting with the ability to play alone or wirelessly with up to three friends. Copying enemy abilities and working alongside helper characters is cool, and we dig the imaginative environments, but there's not enough to keep us hooked.

Joe Biden has no symptoms linked to coronavirus and has not been tested for the illness, his campaign said Friday in a disclosure intended to highlight the Democratic candidate’s transparency in comparison to President Donald Trump’s comments on his potential exposure to the virus. ”Vice President Biden has no fever, no cough, no shortness of breath or other symptoms consistent with coronavirus, and the campaign has not been informed of or become aware of any relevant contact with an individual who has tested positive,” his campaign’s public health advisory committee said in a statement.









Joe Biden has no symptoms linked to coronavirus and has not been tested for the illness, his campaign said Friday in a disclosure intended to highlight the Democratic candidate’s transparency in comparison to President Donald Trump’s comments on his potential exposure to the virus. ”Vice President Biden has no fever, no cough, no shortness of breath or other symptoms consistent with coronavirus, and the campaign has not been informed of or become aware of any relevant contact with an individual who has tested positive,” his campaign’s public health advisory committee said in a statement.

World markets have just had their most volatile week since the financial crisis of 2008. Many assumptions have been changed. So as the week ended, what exactly had markets priced in? A Recession in the U.S.

Sign up for Bloomberg’s daily technology newsletter here. Airbnb Inc., like nearly everyone, is in a crisis thanks to the coronavirus. The home-sharing company, which seemed on track to go public this year, has some hard choices to make.My colleague Olivia Carville and I reported on Wednesday that many of Airbnb's customers are upset they haven’t been able to get refunds for trip cancellations related to the coronavirus. Airbnb has extended its existing refund policy to make exceptions for travelers in mainland China, Italy and South Korea. But for many other guests, they’ve been left to plead with hosts for understanding.

The coronavirus threatens to bring the world economy to a standstill. The fallout could include recessions in the U.S., euro area, and Japan; the slowest growth on record in China; and a total $2.7 trillion in lost output—equivalent to the gross domestic product of the U.K. That’s the most extreme of four scenarios developed by Bloomberg Economics. The outcome many had in mind a month ago—with a major outbreak confined to China and other countries suffering limited effects—is rapidly becoming too optimistic. The chances of the worst-case scenario—with all major economies suffering a significant shock—are rising by the day. The graphic below shows how they would fare under each scenario.  Scenarios are based on Bloomberg Economics’ estimate of the slowdown experienced in China, the case count in other countries, calculations of supply chain linkages, and a large-scale model of the global economy.  Data: Bloomberg Economics, NiGEM, OECD ICIO

Anneliese Bischof was on a business trip in Thailand in the second week of January when conversations with Chinese colleagues about a new virus spreading across the region made her realize a major outbreak might be occurring. For Bischof, the business director of disinfection at German chemicals company Lanxess AG, this was initially no cause for alarm. After all, she and her team had seen spikes in viral infections before, like the African swine fever that swept across the Asia-Pacific region last year, driving up demand for the company’s Virkon industrial-strength disinfectant. It was only when Bischof returned to Germany that she realized this time was different. Back home in Cologne, the phones in her department started ringing off the hook. The inquiries were from nations that had never previously been on the Lanxess corporate map. “We had an off-the-charts number of calls coming in,” says Bischof, who works at the company’s Material Protection unit, which took over the Virkon brand of disinfectants a few years ago with the $230 million purchase of a biocide business from Delaware-based Chemours Co. “Places like Trinidad and Tobago, all kinds of small countries that for the majority of our business wouldn’t have been on our radar. That’s when we really started noticing the bomb dropping.” Virkon, a powder dissolved in water and then sprayed on surfaces, kills viruses quickly, often in minutes. That sets it apart from other agents that may take a full hour to eliminate them, Bischof says. “You wouldn’t want to soak or spray a desk and let it sit for 60 minutes if you want to disinfect it.” The German company isn’t alone in having to scramble to meet demand for products that have become hot sellers in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. Even before the  spread of Covid-19 outside of China accelerated, American shoppers were stocking up on items such as medical masks, hand sanitizers, and thermometers—in the week through Jan. 25, sales of masks were up 428% from the same period last year, according to Nielsen data. And companies such as Gojo Industries Inc., which sells Purell hand sanitizer, kicked into high gear after demand for disinfectant hand gels spiked 1,400% from December to January, according to Adobe Analytics. Manufacturers say the current stockpiling is more frenzied than that which occurs before a natural disaster. “I’m from Florida, so when it’s hurricane season you see people with the same kind of behavior or pretty similar,” says Rick McLeod, vice president of product supply for Procter & Gamble Co.’s family care unit—home of the coveted Charmin and Bounty brands. “What’s different here is that it’s not as concentrated as you would see in a hurricane response—it’s obviously more widespread.” Indeed, retailers such as Target, Kroger, and Tesco in the U.K. are limiting certain purchases. Costco Wholesale Corp. is struggling to keep items in stock, Chief Financial Officer Richard Galanti told analysts, saying the buying frenzy has been “a little bit crazy.” In France, shoppers snapped up pasta, rice, ready-cooked meals, and toilet paper, says Michel-Édouard Leclerc, chairman of supermarket chain E.Leclerc. “Everyone rushed like they had lived through a war, which is incredible, because three-quarters of the people who came to stock up have never known war.” With demand soaring, Lanxess began air-freighting Virkon to China instead of shipping it—getting it to customers within a week, rather than 30 to 45 days. Lanxess also installed a second shift, doubled capacity at the factory making Virkon in Sudbury, England, and is leaning on other European production sites. Bischof predicts sales will remain high for the foreseeable future. “Demand is here to stay at least for this year, if not going forward,” she says. “The topic of disinfection is present in people’s minds now.” —With Gerald Porter Jr. and Thomas Buckley

Jeremi Barnes wants to be upfront: He’s got to give credit to his girlfriend for the joke that’s doing numbers on Twitter. “BREAKING NEWS: If you’ve ever had the water in Warrensburg, MO you’re immune to the Coronavirus,” he tweeted. The joke is resonating with folks in the small city of Warrensburg, where Barnes is a senior at the University of Central Missouri. Nearly a thousand people mashed the like button over the last week. I don’t get the joke, but I get the joke. There’s gotta be something so gross about the water in Warrensburg that not even the dread coronavirus could contest its status as a test of the immune system. “If you go to any restaurant and ask for a water you will instantly notice it after your first sip,” Barnes tells me via DM. The taste is horrendous, he says, ripe with chlorine. And it just does something to your skin and hair. In a word, Warrensburg’s water is nasty. “Anyone will confirm this.” Like so many others, Barnes is trying to prepare for the arrival of Covid-19 where he lives. (Missouri confirmed its second case of coronavirus on March 12.) At UCM, he competes on the men’s track and field team — his event is the triple jump — and he learned on Thursday that the team isn’t scheduling any more practices or meets for the foreseeable future. Barnes is taking this in stride; at least, he was gracious enough to explain a joke to a stranger online as the crisis was starting to feel real. We all get this joke. In fact, we’re all making this joke. Barnes’s take is one of many popping up every minute on Twitter. If you’ve ever eaten at Papaya King on New York’s Upper East Side, you’re immune to coronavirus. If you’ve ever done Fiesta in Old San Antonio, you’re immune to coronavirus. The meme is catching on, maybe (hopefully!) faster than the coronavirus is spreading. As the U.S. braces for the pandemic — and as local track coaches lap national leaders in making responsible decisions about public safety — social media has pivoted hard to gallows humor. We’re making Tom Hanks fan art and “Corona Time” TikToks and endless hand-washing instruction jokes.  Washing in the name of...On this occasion it's best you do what they tell ya pic.twitter.com/unDdBh1HDh Still others are registering their growing alarm by boasting about surviving frat bathrooms, Riot Fest, and pee-laden water parks (ew). These “if you’ve ever” immunity memes are a nervous laugh in that way, but they’re something else, too. A gesture of defiance against nature, maybe. People are making the point that the places we come from and the things that make them special make us strong. We have faced down gnarly before, and we will do it again. “If you’ve ever been to Tonic in Reno, you’re immune from Coronavirus,” writes Gabrielle Lucas. She tells me (via DM) that she spent her college days there in Reno. The Tonic Bar and Lounge is one of those establishments at the world’s end, a bar of last resort. No one goes before 2 a.m., Lucas says, and they leave reeking of whiskey and cigarettes. “I think this tweet came from my bones somehow,” replied Andrea Rogers, another Reno person summoning the indomitable spirit of the morning after. From scanning the timeline, dive bars, municipal water systems, and hometown fast food outlets are the most popular targets of this meme. Most joke about cleanliness: A tweet about the bathroom at the legendary East Village punk venue CBGB resonated with me. If cleanliness is next to godliness, then I’ve been to hell and back — so what do I have to fear from another flu? All of them — all the resonant jokes anyway, there are plenty that are racist or otherwise awful — display a tenderness about home. It’s as if people are raising a flag, identifying the experiences that distinguish us in the face of a pandemic that threatens to reduce human populations to numbers: the infected, the recovered, the deceased. I, too, know how bad the water tastes in San Angelo, Texas. If sulphur water were a tonic against Covid-19, the CDC would be bottling and selling the Concho River. Still, I find myself idly wishing I was bunkering back at home instead of where I live now. I’m from here, this meme says. You can’t kill me.  These if-you’ve-ever jokes about immunity are tinged with another, darker meaning. Each bit is a piece of disinformation, an illustration of the heedless power of fake news in a global health crisis. They use the same puffed-up tone of idiotic overconfidence employed by regime propagandists, professionally wrong pundits, and that “peak performance” meme guy. That’s part of what makes these jokes land on Twitter: The medium is so infused with malintent and sheer wrongness that the authors of critically mistaken health tips could conceivably be trying to pull one over on hapless readers. Only people in the know will know what’s up. Of course, the virus bearing down on the nation doesn’t care if we’ve tried the best carne asada fries ever or consume malört as if it were the law. Knowing that the country is not prepared — not in terms of antibodies or vaccines or preventative measures or public health resources or political leadership — what else can anyone say? We screw up our faces, summon deep wells of pride, and tell this asshole germ to jump off the nearest bridge. Barnes, the Missouri track senior, tells me that if it comes down to it, he may redshirt in order to race again next year. He’s not ready to leave just yet. “Aside from the water and the noise from the train that comes through from time to time, the town is great,” he says. “Pine Street is the place to be! I love Warrensburg.” Why would he quarantine anywhere else?

Want to receive this post in your inbox every day? Sign up for the Balance of Power newsletter, and follow Bloomberg Politics on Twitter and Facebook for more. The coronavirus impact is pervasive. Schools, bars and restaurants are closed, sporting and other events canceled. Broadway shut. Italy resembles a ghost country under a nationwide lockdown.

Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd. said Friday it is suspending voyages embarking through April 11, joining two Carnival Corp. brands in essentially shutting down business to prevent coronavirus spread. The company said it has not had any confirmed coronavirus cases on its ships.

This week, French President Emmanuel Macron delivered a televised address to the nation on efforts to contain the coronavirus pandemic. Following the lead of neighboring Italy — as well as Greece, Poland, the Czech Republic, Ukraine and Denmark — universities, day care facilities and schools will close on March 16. But on March 15, the first round of local elections will go ahead as planned in 34,968 cities and towns across the country. The government was advised by the scientific community that nothing is standing in the way of French people voting, Macron said. His comments echoed those of French Prime Minister Edouard Philippe, who on March 7 sent out a letter to all mayors, saying: “Elections are, in the life of our country, an essential moment, where democracy can catch its breath. Postponing them is out of the question.” But fears of the virus — now classified as a global pandemic — threaten to erode voter turnout that had already been waning in recent election cycles. A recent survey conducted for online health platform Charles.co by the research and polling firm IFOP (Institut Francais d’Opinion Public) found that, among the 1,008 people surveyed, 28% said they were likely to reconsider going out to vote because of the coronavirus spreading in France. ”They should definitely be worried,” Megan Murray, professor of epidemiology at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health told CityLab. “It’s insane, really. If you don’t need to put a lot of people in the same place and have them touch things, then you really shouldn’t.” Up until Macron’s TV appearance, France had been slower than many other countries to take a drastic containment approach to the virus. According to some experts, France is just a few days behind Italy in the spread of the virus, and its health-care system could face similar capacity challenges from a spike in patients. Even before the virus, the country’s hospitals were already strained: Health-care workers took to the streets to protest insufficient funding and resources as recently as last November. This year’s elections are taking place in a tense political climate, after months of social unrest that culminated in lengthy strikes by rail workers, health-care workers, teachers, and virtually any corporate association targeted by President Emmanuel Macron’s government pension reform. His approval rating rose to 32% in February, from an all-time low of 23% during the “Yellow Vest” movement, creating an uphill battle for mayoral candidates in his party. More than 47.7 million people are registered to vote in the local council elections, which determine a city’s mayor, but individual polling stations rarely receive more than 800 to 1,000 people throughout the course of the day.  On March 13, the government prohibited gatherings of more than 100 people. So far, there have been no official measures announced to have a staggered vote. Postponing the vote is no longer feasible, according to Agnes Le Brun, mayor of the city of Morlaix and spokesperson of the Association des Maires de France (Association of Mayors of France), told CityLab. To reschedule an entire election, a bill needs to be drafted and passed by the National Assembly and the Senate. This has been done before: In 2007, municipal elections were pushed back to 2008 because there were too many elections that year. But the cost and time needed to reschedule an election may be far more than people appreciate, Le Brun said. “Elections require a lot of organization, even though when you look at it from the outside, it seems like there is only something happening on the day when people vote.” And France isn’t the first country voting under the cloud of the coronavirus. Earlier this month, Israel set up a separate tent for quarantined voters, and the U.S. presidential primaries have thus far gone ahead as planned. The British government, however, announced that it would postpone English local elections scheduled for May. And the U.S. is starting to cancel future presidential primary contests. Voting stations will look a bit different on Sunday, and precautions will involve more than hand sanitizer and protective gloves. France uses very few voting machines — only 70 out of the 34,968 towns voting on Sunday will use them, according to newspaper Le Parisien — which means that every voter has to sign a register with shared pens. In Morlaix, officials will be disinfecting reusable pens. There will be: “two boxes,” she explained. “Voters will grab a pen in one of the boxes, and dispose of it in the other one. They will be disinfected regularly.” But this year, voters can also bring their own pen — it just has to have black or blue ink for the vote to be valid. Voters are also encouraged to lift the curtain of the voting booth with “their forearm,” Le Brun said. They will be required to stay at least one meter — a little more than 3 feet — away from one another, and the booths will be disinfected regularly. ”In principle it is not hard to kill the virus with disinfectant,” Murray said, “but in that context, you’re relying entirely on humans, and the possibility for human error is huge. It’s not a thing that is going to be error-free.” The administration has made it easier for those isolated, sick or at risk to vote by “procuration” — the equivalent of an absentee ballot. In the IFOP survey, the respondents who seemed to be the most worried about contracting the coronavirus while voting were the ones who were the least likely to be very negatively impacted: “young people, mostly urban, who get informed via social media or online tools, and are more exposed than the average to rumors spreading online,” Francois Kraus of the IFOP told CityLab. They are the ones who also tend to vote for the Macron government the least, he said. The elderly are, according to the survey, the least worried about the ongoing pandemic. “They trust public authorities more,” Kraus said, and thus are more likely to believe that risks are under control.Other countries will be looking at France this weekend for any lessons learned as they head into their own elections. ”The elderly are the highest -risk group with regards to this coronavirus — they need to understand the risk,” Dan Hanfling, former special advisor to the U.S. Department of Health told CityLab in an email. “If this becomes an issue for us later in the year, I would hope that we will have the opportunity to send in ballots by mail.”

Turkey on Friday confirmed a second coronavirus case and took a step to increase production of sanitizers after shutting all schools for two weeks from March 16 and banning spectators from sports arenas through next month. The second person who tested positive for the disease is related to the first victim, who remains in quarantine, Health Minister Fahrettin Koca said in a tweet. Also on Friday, Turkey decided to boost ethyl alcohol output and increase production of disinfectants by suspending a rule to blend 3% ethanol in gasoline for three months, according to Industry Minister Mustafa Varank.

The days before March 21 this year were supposed to be busy with shoppers in Tehran and elsewhere in Iran preparing for Nowruz, the Persian new year, the most prosperous time for merchants and shopkeepers. But pedestrian traffic is sparse in the capital. Some people who have ventured out are wearing masks and gloves, but others seem indifferent to protective measures. Restaurants and cafes are empty; and the confectioneries—usually packed with folks shopping for new year’s candies and sweets—are deserted, stark and almost naked because of the bright lights shining through their tall windows, exposing tray upon tray of unsold pastries, nuts, and chocolates. On the sidewalks, peddlers spread their products on the ground, but no one’s paying attention. “People are afraid of corona,” says one seller, using the popular shortened term for the new coronavirus. “They don’t want to touch anything. They think they’d carry corona to their homes.” On Enghelab Square, near the University of Tehran, some bookstores were closed, and those that weren’t had no customers, not even window-shoppers. At one of the sweet shops, the 56-year-old manager—“Haj Mehdi” as his employees call him—stands staring at his store empty of the usual holiday consumers. “It’s awful,” he says. “On a good day, we earn one-fourth of the pre-corona days. We used to make 2 million tomans a day [about $130 at current depressed rates of exchange]. Now, 300,000 to 400,000 tomans. We used to have 80 to 100 customers. Nowadays, fewer than 20. I might actually start drawing tally marks to count the customers every day just to keep myself entertained.” He’s thinking of cutting down on work hours to save money. “We have 12 people and have asked them to work in shifts every other day. We’re not going to close, but if this situation persists, we may have to let go of them one by one.” At a downtown branch of Bella Shoes, a venerable brand established in 1966, store manager Behnam Soleimani, 26, sounds desperate. “We’re selling one-third of February and just a tiny fraction of what we could’ve been selling in March,” he says. “We’re part of a company with many branches, and it’s unlikely that the spread of coronavirus will lead to the closure of the entire company. But our branch, our staff, or myself might as well get the ax if it goes on like this.” Bella has survived calamities before: several stages of bankruptcy and restructuring over the years, as well as the 1979 Islamic Revolution. The epidemic is another existential threat. “It’s that time of the year when we shouldn’t have time to scratch our heads,” Soleimani says. “But nowadays we sit around for a couple of hours without anyone coming in to even ask a price.”

The hardest thing to find amid the coronavirus pandemic isn’t hand sanitizer. It’s a straight answer. A slow-moving federal response and a trickle of often-changing advice have largely left the critical job of setting front-line policy to overburdened, under-resourced state and local health departments. Often, they themselves don’t have enough information to form plans to combat a brand-new disease.

Welcome to the Brussels Edition, Bloomberg’s daily briefing on what matters most in the heart of the European Union. Sign up here to get it in your inbox every weekday morning. In battling the deadly coronavirus, European policy makers face the same predicament as the continent's overwhelmed medical community:  the usual remedies don’t work. Central bank interventions, defiant reassurances by leaders and stimulus pledges failed to prevent a  historic market meltdown yesterday. But like doctors, they won’t just give up. And the Commission will today  unveil a set of treatment options to help countries cushion the outbreak’s economic impact. One question that lingers is whether euro-area governments are ready to agree on ambitious, coordinated  fiscal stimulus — amid doubts about whether even that medicine would be effective.

On March 12, the Danish parliament escalated the fight against coronavirus by approving an emergency law that represents possibly the strictest set of measures to fight the pandemic yet adopted by any European country. Closing schools and public offices and banning assemblies of more than 100 people, the Danish authorities now have the power to force residents to be tested for the virus; for those who test positive, they now have the power to enforce their isolation. To make sure these rules are followed, police can enter homes and private property without a warrant, bar people from public institutions and public transit, and request passenger lists from ships or planes arriving in the country. The law even allows the government to seize private property if doing so can prevent coronavirus sufferers from breaking the rules on isolation.

Asif Khan has a new routine every time one of his ride-share passengers steps out of the Toyota minivan he drives in Austin: He grabs a can of Lysol and sprays everything down. “It says it kills all the germs,” he explains. With diligence and luck, Khan might be able to avoid getting sick. But there isn’t much he can do about the financial hit coming his way now that the city has canceled the 2020 South by Southwest music and technology festival over concerns about the coronavirus pandemic. Instead of the extra $2,000 he expected to rake in during the two-week event, he’ll likely make less than he does during normal times, driving 10 to 12 hours seven days a week. That’ll mean forgoing plans to pay down debt, he says. “Now it’s going to take a little longer.” Organizers said SXSW, which draws hundreds of thousands of attendees from more than 100 countries every March, had a total economic impact on Austin of almost $356 million last year. That includes hotel and Airbnb rooms, the money big corporations spend renting venues for dinners, the bar tabs for the revelers that flood downtown, and the surge in shopping at hipster boutiques as foot traffic picks up. “It’s like a hurricane of people, of humanity, that leaves behind money instead of wreckage,” says Brian Rush, who owns the Tears of Joy hot-sauce shop in the downtown entertainment district. March typically brings in two to three times the revenue he makes in an average month as he guides walk-ins to house-made concoctions with names like Dragon’s Breath and Night Destroyer. Rush expects business will be lower than in previous years, but isn’t sure how bad it will be. That’s because he figures many people who already bought tickets to Austin will still make the trip, especially those coming for the smaller, unofficial music shows that pop up during the festival. That’s also the hope of Miranda Welch, the lead barista at Gelateria Gemelli, which sells sweets, coffee, and cocktails just outside downtown. Welch also works as a doorperson and bartender at the music venue Cheer Up Charlies and counts on a windfall from SXSW, during which they typically see at least double the tips they’d make on a normal night. “I definitely won’t be able to go on vacation anytime soon, and I was kind of hoping for that,” Welch says. Fernando Marri, owner of the Boteco food truck in East Austin, said the cancellation will cost him $45,000 of catering business, so he won’t be hiring the 10 workers he’d planned to take on during SXSW. The timing is particularly bad—he was expecting a jump in customers after his business, which sells coxinhas, brigadeiros, and other foods from his native Brazil, was lauded by Food Network host Guy Fieri two months ago. In the video, Fieri said he’d been turned on to the truck by the actor and beloved Austinite Matthew McConaughey. “For everybody that lives in Austin, go out and support small businesses,” Marri says. “Think about that a little extra this month.” Austin has long considered itself a city that’s friendly to the creative class, where musicians can find a steady stream of gigs and plenty of service-industry work to pay the bills before they make it big. But that reputation has changed in recent years; housing costs have shot up amid a technology boom that’s seen thousands of jobs created by Apple, IBM, Oracle, and other companies. While that influx of tech employers helped give the region the fastest-growing economy among major U.S. metropolitan areas over the past decade, Austin also saw one of the nation’s biggest increases in the economic gap between white and nonwhite populations, according to a recent Brookings Institution study. Civic do-gooders are raising funds to support service workers who stand to take big losses from the cancellation of the festival. The Austin metro area has roughly 113,000 workers in the hotel and food-service sector, census data show. Two GoFundMe campaigns have generated more than $27,000 of donations. (The company that runs SXSW also says it will lay off about a third of its 175 full-time employees.) The cancellation is particularly hard on Mudathir Abdulgafar, a full-time ride-share driver who’s lived in Austin for seven years. He says business usually doubles during the festival, and its scrubbing this year will be a blow to his finances. Abdulgafar had already stopped accepting pooled rides about three weeks ago, figuring the extra passengers on those trips increased the chance he could catch the coronavirus and be forced to take time off before the busy SXSW period. He’s been talking with other drivers about what to do, and many of his colleagues are thinking about seeking work piloting delivery vans for Amazon. They figure the job will be steadier, and there’s less chance of catching an illness from a rider who is sick. Says Abdulgafar: “Packages instead of people.”

The coronavirus has already had a huge impact on the hospitality industry in general, but some sectors have been hit worse than others. Restaurants in Chinatowns across the country are shuttering, at least temporarily, as some places reporting declines in sales of as much as 80%. In Seattle, the disease caused by the virus has escalated so quickly that Starbucks is considering limited seating and drive-thru only. The city’s most famous chef, Tom Douglas, has announced that he’s temporarily closing 12 of his 13 restaurants after a 90% drop in business. In New York, the James Beard Award-winning chef Tom Colicchio reports that his business has gone down 70%.

Alexis Kaiser always planned on renting out the house that came with the 250-acre Oklahoma farm that she and her husband bought in 2015. Her sister thought the idea would never work — 65 miles from the nearest airport, the three-bedroom split-level house seemed too remote. But the listing fared well on Airbnb. Now Kaiser is tapping into a new strain of social anxiety in order to hit it bigger. As cases of a respiratory illness caused by a novel coronavirus spread throughout the U.S., Kaiser is advertising her abode as a “Covid-19 Safe House” on Craigslist in cities with large infection clusters. “Don’t just hunker down to get through the pandemic, turn this frightening time into a family get-away in the country,” urges the ad she posted to Craigslist in the San Francisco, Seattle, and New York City areas last week. “In the wake of the likely lockdowns and quarantines about to be faced by city-dwellers across America, you need a safe place for your family to live.” Kaiser isn’t the only one branding rural property as an answer to urban coronavirus fears. A 40-acre compound in Northern California’s Sierra foothills is listed for sale with a hat tip to Covid-19. “Preppers Paradise,” reads another pandemic-branded Craiglist housing post. Airbnb listings around the world describe themselves as “coronavirus-free.” While it’s too soon to detect any rise in demand for exurban housing related to Covid-19 — the data lags by four to six weeks, according to the California Association of Realtors — Kaiser and others are correct to observe a swell in anxiety about the health risks of urban life. “People who are self quarantining in the suburbs can at least go in their backyards,” tweeted the New York Times’ Taylor Lorenz on Tuesday. “Being stuck inside a NYC apt is only one step above a cruise ship.” Similar sentiments have made their way to the Beltway. “Gotta hope our tremendous sprawl compared to Italy will help us some too,” tweeted Vox writer Matthew Yglesias about the possibility that coronavirus will take a lighter toll in the U.S. than it has in other nations. As maps like this show, major metropolitan areas are bearing the brunt of the Covid-19 infections spreading across North America. And that makes sense: Though there’s no way to know for sure how the virus arrived, it almost certainly came by way of an international flight to a major airport (or several of them). But while infectious disease spreads faster where people are more densely clustered — hence the strategy of social distancing to contain the coronavirus — that doesn’t necessarily make suburban or rural areas safer, health experts say. “What we’re seeing is this virus is spreading very fast, and no community is completely removed,” says Cecile Viboud, a senior research scientist specializing in epidemiology and populations at the National Institutes of Health. That is not to say that cities aren’t Petri dishes — they are. Relative to rural areas, urban centers do provide stronger chains of viral transmission, with higher rates of contact and larger numbers of infection-prone people. And historically, urbanites paid a price for this vulnerability. “There was a health penalty when you lived in cities,” says Roger Keil, a professor of urban studies at York University in Toronto who wrote recently wrote in The Conversation about the urban frontiers where new infectious diseases flourish. Measles, whooping cough, tuberculosis and other viruses were particularly rampant in early 19th century cities, before better sanitation, vaccination and wider access to healthcare cleaned them up. And in the pre-globalized era, the countryside did indeed confer some degree of defense. Eva Kassens-Noor, a professor of urban planning at Michigan State University, has studied the 1918 influenza pandemic to better understand the role that population density and other geographic variables play in pandemics. For a 2013 paper in the International Journal of Health Geographics, she and her colleagues found that a population density of 175 people per square mile served as a threshold between higher and lower mortality rates for influenza in India. People living in places with a population density above this threshold were better off getting out of Dodge.For millennia, urbanites with means did just that. Back in the 14th century, writer Giovanni Boccaccio’s book The Decameron focused on a troupe of wealthy Florentines — the pandemic preppers of their era — escaping the Black Death that festered in the city by holing up in a country home on the city’s hilly outskirts. But things have changed. Modern transportation networks have made the population shield that rural areas once provided much more porous. Now that humans and freight can travel from, say, Hong Kong to Los Angeles in less than 13 hours — and arrive by vehicle to somewhere sparsely populated hours after that — outbreaks can happen just about anywhere. New pathogens tend to arrive sooner in global hubs, but that doesn’t mean they can’t quickly reach rural locales and proliferate from there, says Benjamin Dalziel, a professor of integrative biology at Oregon State University who studies population dynamics. “Cities with big airports are definitely importing more cases than cities without,” he says. “But it’s not like all the epidemiological sparks would stay there.” Or, in Keil’s words: “The idea that we can go to countryside to protect ourselves is a bit of a myth, because it doesn’t exist like it used to.” Meanwhile, rural and exurban areas have their own unique health challenges. For one, new zoonotic pathogens frequently emerge in pastoral places where humans come into contact with animals. And in the U.S. (and many other countries), rural populations are relatively older, making them more at risk for falling seriously ill from Covid-19. More than one in five older Americans lives in rural places. Those living outside cities also have more limited access to health care generally: Rural residents live much further from hospitals than their urban or suburban counterparts, and more of them list access to good doctors as a major community problem. While a disciplined city can overcome its population density disadvantage by canceling mass gatherings, small towns cannot so easily tweak their spatial health disparities. San Francisco can live without Warriors games; a rural hospital can’t be built overnight. “Rural populations have less means to contract it [coronavirus], but rural populations have less means to treat it,” Kassens-Noor says. When it comes to other, more familiar infectious diseases, cities benefit from higher vaccination rates and the accompanying phenomenon known as “herd immunity.” If a large enough percentage of a population has received vaccination to an infectious disease, the community can effectively stop its transmission to vulnerable people or those who didn’t get the shot. In a 2015 paper for Infection Ecology and Epidemiology, epidemiologist Carl-Johan Neiderud showed how coverage rates differ across city and county lines. In Indonesia, for example, more people have the measles vaccination in urban areas (80%) than in rural areas (67%). This isn't a universal trend, and socioeconomic factors play an important role in both attitudes about and access to vaccines. (Famously, many high-income parts of California contain large numbers of unvaccinated households.) In Chandigarh, India, herd immunity tracks closely with residency and status: 74% of children in urban areas had full immunization by age 2, compared to 63% in rural areas and just 30% in slums. Herd immunity depends on everyone playing along, which is why anti-vaccination adherents are such a threat to vulnerable people in big populations. (There is no vaccine against Covid-19 yet, but herd immunity will likely matter a lot if and when this coronavirus resurfaces.) Smaller cities can also suffer more acutely from infectious disease than big ones, at least when it comes to the flu. A 2018 paper published in Science, co-authored by Dalziel and Viboud, found that mid-sized metropolitan areas such as Nashville tend to experience shorter and more intense outbreaks of influenza relative to big cities such as New York or Miami. Larger urban populations, the researchers found, provide a greater degree of herd immunity, slowing the spread of the disease through the community and counteracting the role that humidity plays in the spread of flu. Larger urban hospitals also tend to be more capable of handling an influx of sick people. Of course, Covid-19 is a different bug than the one that killed between 17 and 50 million people worldwide from 1918 to 1920, or the modern variants that resurface during flu seasons. The 1918 influenza outbreak was particularly brutal because it happened in 1918: Social support structures were limited, treatments were relatively primitive, global war fostered illness, and the germ theory of disease was still not well understood. The population-density threshold for influenza mortality in early 20th century India that Kassens-Noor identified doesn’t tell us much about what to do with Covid-19. After all, the population density of, say, Oklahoma City is much, much higher than 175 people per square mile. (The census gives the population density for broader Oklahoma County as 1,013 people per square mile — so OKC is far too urban to dodge an epidemic.) Dalziel and Viboud both stressed that health researchers are just beginning to understand the transmission dynamics of Covid-19. But it looks like the first cases detected in Italy, Germany, and the U.S. were all on the urban periphery. Some U.S. hot spots — Kirkland, Washington, and New Rochelle, New York — are suburbs of major cities. While it’s too early to detect any consistent pattern in the spread of the novel coronavirus, “what those data underscore is the the fact that you’re not necessarily safe in the suburbs,” Dalziel says. “Those are counter-examples to the idea that it’s just happening in cities.” Kaiser, the Oklahoma Airbnb host, acknowledges that no one place can guarantee invulnerability to this new pandemic. Still, her listing sounds like an idyllic locale for a destination quarantine — there’s a 14-acre fishing pond and a horse arena. “It seemed like a good way to market the house,” she says. “For someone who has the financial capacity to get away and work from home, here’s your chance to spend a month out on a farm, and avoid some of the trauma we’re seeing in other countries.” But while the CDC recommends decreasing social contact to limit the spread of the virus, that’s just as doable in a downtown apartment as a countryside manor. Says Viboud: “If you’re staying at home and limiting outside contact, you’d achieve the same purpose.”

Japan’s government brushed off U.S. President Donald Trump’s suggestion to delay the Tokyo Olympics by one year due to the deadly coronavirus, saying it’s pressing ahead to start the Games as planned this summer. Olympics Minister Seiko Hashimoto and Japan’s top government spokesman Yoshihide Suga both said Friday, hours after Trump made the recommendation, there were no changes to the plan to stage the event starting July 24, even as the coronavirus death toll rises worldwide and major sporting events are shutting down or putting play on hold.

Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro tested negative for coronavirus, giving his inner circle and allies some relief after a close aide was diagnosed with the illness. He announced the results of his test on social media, along with a picture of himself making a rude gesture used by many to tell off their critics.

Louisiana postponed its April 4 presidential primary over concerns about coronavirus, the first state to suspend voting since the outbreak began. Meanwhile, Wyoming has suspended the in-person part of its Democratic caucuses, also scheduled for April 4. Officials are urging people to vote by mail instead.

The Masters tournament, the most important event on the golf calendar, will be postponed because of the coronavirus outbreak. The tournament, which takes place in annually at Augusta National Golf Club in Georgia, was scheduled for April 9-12. It will be postponed to a later date, according to Fred Ridley, chairman of Augusta National. “We recognize this decision will affect many people, including our loyal patrons,” Ridley said. “Your patience as we make every effort to communicate effectively and efficiently is appreciated, and we will share any additional information as soon as it becomes available.” As the U.S. sports world ground to a halt over Wednesday and Thursday, golf appeared to be resisting cancellations or postponements. That changed late Thursday night, when the the PGA Tour announced that the Players Championship, which was planning to continue without fans, would be canceled. The PGA also canceled all events in the coming weeks. The Masters news will have particular impact on the event’s long-time TV partner, ViacomCBS Inc.’s CBS, which has also lost its coverage of the lucrative March Madness college basketball championship tournament. It will also affect the tournament’s small sponsor list, which last year was just Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz, International Business Machines Corp. and AT&T Inc.

President Donald Trump declared a national emergency on Friday over the coronavirus crisis, as he announced a set of measures to address a shortage in testing kits and cushion the economic fallout from the outbreak. Speaking in the White House Rose Garden, Trump announced a range of actions, including decisions to waive student-loan interest, purchase large quantities of oil, set up drive-through virus testing in Walmart and Target parking lots, and confer new authority on his health secretary to bypass hospital regulations.

Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Kenya reported its first case of the coronavirus, a 27-year-old female national who had returned from the U.S. via London, Health Secretary Mutahi Kagwe said on Friday in a televised speech.

Originally published by James Stacey on Hodinkee. And now for something quite a bit different. In my continued exploration of gold watches at large, it seemed a wise move to consider some options outside of the typical old-world offerings, some alternatives to the known quantities – as lovely as they often are. Within such a survey as this, if you're looking for something that manages to be both outside the usual math while still offering a very similar score, few brands have been hitting as hard as Bulgari over the past few years.

An American Airlines Group Inc. pilot tested positive for coronavirus, becoming the first at the carrier to be diagnosed with the disease that’s infected more than 128,000 people globally and killed nearly 5,000.The aviator is undergoing treatment, American’s pilots union said Thursday. Neither the Allied Pilots Association nor the airline would confirm when the pilot became ill, say if he or she was flying recently or release any personal information. The union learned of the coronavirus case Wednesday night. American said in a statement it is “in close contact” with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and public health officials. American Airlines to Cut More Flights Because of Coronavirus

Some of the world’s most famous hedge fund managers gathered on Sunday night at the Capital Grille near Rockefeller Center, a steakhouse where the double-cut lamb chops with mint gremolata run $53. There was John Paulson, who made his billions from the housing collapse that helped trigger the last financial crisis. And David Einhorn, who came out on top when the dot-com bubble burst. And Dan Loeb, who got rich by baring the sharpest teeth. But these masters of capitalism, brought together by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., were lacking their usual swagger. Instead, they spent the night trying to grasp what was going on as the coronavirus known as Covid-19  raged around the world and a  fight between Russians and Saudis hurled the oil market into chaos, according to people there. The fallout could resemble the 2008 crisis, the 2001 collapse, global chaos in 1998, or something else—the very investors who made their fortunes from them weren’t sure. They stared into phones that told them stock futures were falling so much that trading would soon be halted. Then things got worse. Markets were in chaos on Monday and rebounded on Tuesday before the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell into a bear market on Wednesday for the first time in more than a decade. That was nothing compared with Thursday, Wall Street’s bleakest rout since 1987’s Black Monday. By day’s end, the coronavirus, now officially a pandemic, had killed at least 4,740 worldwide and infected more than 128,390. Even with a Friday bounce, it was a brutal week. Billionaires and bosses at the top of Wall Street didn’t see things getting so bad so fast. Even when the executives who run the biggest banks gathered for a sit-down Wednesday at the White House, they had little to offer skittish markets. Much of Wall Street’s wealth, pride, and chutzpah spring from its ability to stay a step ahead by understanding and managing risk. But these giants seem as bewildered as everybody else. If they have lost the ability to prepare for chaos and profit from it, that could be because this catastrophe is rooted in the real world, not a financial one. “I didn’t think this would happen, I thought people would calm down,” said Marc Lasry, who co-founded the $10.5 billion investment firm Avenue Capital Group and co-owns the Milwaukee Bucks. “Most people were like me. They were, like, ‘Yeah, whatever, it’s not that big a deal.’” Until Wednesday, Lasry said, he “totally misunderstood this virus.” “We’ve never experienced anything like this” That morning, in a skyscraper near Central Park, top financial and corporate figures were still calm enough to chuckle at a joke from New York’s governor about hand sanitizer. While executives pecked at salad and chicken during a board meeting of the Partnership for New York City, an industry group, Andrew Cuomo appeared on a video screen. “The governor presented how he’s got upstate prisoners making 100,000 gallons of sanitizer a week,” said Kathy Wylde, who runs the organization. “And he asked the Wall Street bankers if they’d like to take it public. They all laughed.” The partnership’s board includes billionaires, finance leaders, and other top executives. “They have a far better sense of ‘This too shall pass,’” Wylde said after the meeting ended. “Right now, it’s a health problem for a certain vulnerable group, it’s a psychological crisis for everybody else, and it has the potential to be a huge economic crisis. But it’s not, yet. And they clearly all believe it’s going to be managed.”  The heads of the biggest U.S. banks skipped the meeting because they were posing for photos with President Donald Trump in Washington and trying to reassure markets. Encouraging words didn’t work—then or later, when Trump delivered an error-laden address from the Oval Office. The next day, Wylde’s mood was grimmer. “The sense from today is that the pandemic is going to last longer and impact the economy more seriously than we realized,” she said. Last month, even as the coronavirus was spreading outside of China, Wall Street was its usual roaring self. On Feb. 21, Lloyd Blankfein traded barbs with Bernie Sanders on Twitter, where the former Goldman Sachs boss said the presidential candidate “wants to feel hated because HE hates.” On Thursday, the billionaire said it was time to “go all-in on social separation and all-in on financial relief to those most economically vulnerable.” By then, Goldman Sachs had told its employees that a worker in a gym at its Jersey City, N.J., office was suspected of having contracted the virus, Morgan Stanley and Wells Fargo & Co. both had confirmed cases, and Barclays said the virus had  hit its New York trading floor.  Gary Cohn, Goldman’s longtime president before he became Trump’s top economic adviser, said the Saudi news on Sunday was an “Oh, my God” moment. He texted friends and traders: “Hey, look, we’re going to have a bad day or two.” On Thursday, he arrived early for a 12:30 p.m. lunch at Oceana and was the only guest in what’s usually a Manhattan hotspot. “It was empty,” Cohn said. “That was another ‘Wow.’” At about the same time, across the street from Goldman’s headquarters, three men who work for the bank were ordering a second round of IPAs at P.J. Clarke’s. The only one of the three not sporting a vest said he was worried about the effects, pointing at a TV showing a basketball game between Florida State and Clemson that had just been canceled. One of the other men said he could handle working from home for two weeks, but not two months. That day, Goldman told employees to work from home in staggered shifts. “We’ve never experienced anything like this,” Bill Daley, who oversees government relations for Wells Fargo, said on Thursday. He was once President Barack Obama’s chief of staff. “Yeah we had economic collapses, ’29 or ’08, but this is a whole new world.” Emanuel Derman, a Columbia University professor who runs a program in financial engineering, said Wall Street executives may not have seen this coming because they don’t understand the pressures on regular people. “I do think financial people live in a different world,” said Derman, a former Goldman Sachs managing director. “It’s their job to think about how other people will react. Maybe they can’t do that.” On Sunday night in Manhattan, not everyone atop Wall Street’s hedge fund world was eating steak at the Capital Grille. One owner of a multibillion-dollar fund was trying to get a few hours of sleep so he could make it to an early morning appointment. He was in his Midtown office to start trading by 3 a.m., hours before the rest of the city woke to the start of a chaotic week. — With assistance by Olivia Rockeman, and Sarah Ponczek

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Romania’s president again asked Ludovic Orban to form a new government, although the process face hurdles after the premier announced he is heading into quarantine due to the coronavirus.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. A Jubilee Line train driver has tested positive for coronavirus and is now self-isolating, Transport for London confirmed via emailed statement Friday morning.

Delta Air Lines Inc. is cutting flights further, slashing spending and seeking government aid to contend with the coronavirus outbreak -- and Chief Executive Officer Ed Bastian warned employees that the situation is likely to get worse. The carrier is “optimistic” about U.S. support after discussions with the White House and Congress, Bastian said Friday in an internal memo. Delta will park as many as 300 planes and cut its seating capacity by 40% in the next few months as demand evaporates. That’s the biggest reduction in company history, including after the 9/11 terrorist attacks, he said.

Gold posted its worst week in over three decades, joining the collapse across global markets that not even the traditional safe haven could dodge. In the rush to raise cash and cover losses in other markets, investors are pulling their money out of bullion, typically seen as a store of value amid market volatility and global worries. That meant hedge funds cutting their bullish bets in the week ended March 10 by the most since early February.

Poland implemented full checks at its border crossings for at least the next 10 days in an attempt to better contain the coronavirus outbreak. Premier Mateusz Morawiecki said on Friday that the government would quarantine Polish nationals as well as foreigners crossing into the country, while allowing trade to continue. The country is part of the European Union’s Schengen zone which allows for free travel of goods and people.

Citigroup Inc. said it’s deep-cleaning one floor of its headquarters in Manhattan’s Tribeca neighborhood after an employee based there tested positive for the coronavirus. The worker was last at the bank’s offices at 388 Greenwich St. a week ago, and was diagnosed on Friday while traveling internationally for personal reasons, Citigroup said in a statement. The company has informed colleagues who worked near the person, who’s not part of Citigroup’s trading operations, to monitor their health and has given them the option to work from home.

The Philippines will impose a month-long lockdown on Metro Manila, a region of 12 million people, as authorities intensify the battle to contain the coronavirus outbreak. President Rodrigo Duterte will decide on a proposal to impose a curfew in the capital region, his spokesman Salvador Panelo said hours after Metropolitan Manila Development Authority General Manager Jose Arturo Garcia Jr. said a curfew from 8 p.m. to 5 a.m. will be implemented starting Sunday until April 14. The city will be on lockdown during this period, with schools and government offices largely shut, as the number of local cases climbed this week.

Concerts and sports competitions are being canceled, schools closed and people are rushing to supermarkets across Canada as government officials announced new measures to slow down the coronavirus outbreak. Ontario, the largest province, closed all public schools through April 5 and Quebec followed suit with a two-week shutdown. Travelers returning from abroad in provinces including Alberta, British Columbia and Quebec were urged to self-isolate for 14 days. Event organizers took to social media to announce last-minute cancellations to follow guidelines against gatherings of 250 people or more.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The Monetary Authority of Singapore sought to reassure the public Friday that markets are “functioning normally” as the coronavirus crisis sparks huge sell-offs around the globe.

Venture capitalists have poured $42 billion into drug development over the past three years. That investment, equal to the National Institutes of Health’s annual spending on medical research, would seem like great news for a world waiting for help with a pandemic. Yet nearly half the money has flooded into cancer and rare diseases with expensive cures. Only about $2.2 billion, or 5% of the total, went to drugs that prevent infections, according to a tally by Silicon Valley Bank, which offers banking services to venture-backed companies and others.

Want the lowdown on what's moving European markets in your inbox every morning? Sign up here. Good morning. Markets melted down spectacularly, central banks have disappointed and now eyes turn to what governments can do on both sides of the Atlantic. Here’s what’s moving markets.

After his government initially suppressed warnings about the outbreak’s severity, Xi claimed credit for locking down Hubei province and replaced local leaders. His success will depend largely on whether there’s a second wave of infections. At the start of the outbreak, Iranian authorities made a show of solidarity with China and were slow to restrict international and domestic travel. Religious authorities in Qom, a pilgrimage site that was the epicenter of the Iranian outbreak, declined to restrict access to shrines. Iran’s missteps are reflected in the high number of government officials who have been infected, including about one-tenth of the nation’s 290-member parliament. The government’s refusal to completely bar Chinese visitors sparked anger. Moon recovered by declaring “war” on the virus and instituting an aggressive and effective testing campaign. Some 210,000 tests (as of March 11) have left the country with one of the largest case totals—but also one of the lowest fatality rates. Cases in the city-state surged to among the highest outside China in the early weeks of the outbreak. Prime Minister Lee’s communications struck a reassuring tone. The government laid out steps people could take to help prevent the spread of the virus and detailed the risks associated with infection. Singapore has taken stringent measures, including setting up quarantine facilities and contact-tracing cases. Not only could the virus tank Japan’s economy, it’s raising questions about whether the Summer Olympics will be canceled. As cases of Covid-19 mounted, Abe lurched from a relatively relaxed approach to restricting travel from China and South Korea and shutting down schools for a month. Conte has drawn fire for his handling of the biggest coronavirus outbreak in Europe. In early March he bungled the announcement of a series of increasingly drastic measures to halt the virus. Ultimately, the government placed all of Italy under lockdown. The efficacy of these measures is still unclear, but they will tip an already weak economy into recession.

Lara Cottingham was a few months into her tenure as Houston’s chief sustainability officer in 2017 when Hurricane Harvey hit. The storm, responsible for over 100 deaths and more than $125 billion in damage, was the devastating wake-up call the city needed to amp up the push toward a future powered by renewable fuels.

England’s Premier League called an emergency meeting to discuss future matches after Arsenal Football Club head coach Mikel Arteta tested positive for the novel coronavirus. The meeting will take place Friday morning U.K. time, the league said in a statement shortly after Arteta’s diagnosis was made public. The Spaniard, who became manager of Arsenal in late 2019, said he sought a test for the coronavirus after feeling ill.

Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Two decades after President Robert Mugabe wrecked Zimbabwe’s economy by urging black subsistence farmers to violently force white commercial farmers and their workers off their land, his successor has thrown in the towel.

A Google virus testing website touted by U.S. President Donald Trump is at an early stage and will first come online in the San Francisco Bay Area on Monday. Trump said at a news conference Friday that the site will help people figure out if they need to be tested for the coronavirus and then direct them to the closest location, which will include drive-through testing centers in Walmart and Target parking lots. Alphabet Inc.’s Google has roughly 1,700 engineers working on the project, the president added.

Expedia Group Inc. withdrew its full-year earnings forecast and updated first-quarter guidance amid a worsening impact from the coronavirus pandemic that’s gutting the global travel sector. The Seattle-based company said the spread of the coronavirus would negatively impact first-quarter adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization “in excess” of the $30 million to $40 million it predicted in mid-February.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Bulgaria declared a state of emergency, giving the government extraordinary powers after the number of cases of coronavrius in the country tripled in a day.

JPMorgan asked many of its roughly 37,000 employees in the New York metro area this week to work from home in staggered shifts to stem the spread of the Covid-19 virus. Bank tellers, who account for about half its New York workforce, weren’t included. Fiat Chrysler Automobiles NV sent 14,000 mostly white-collar workers from its U.S. headquarters to work from home Thursday. Factory workers were required to show up at their plants, including one in Kokomo, Indiana, where a worker had tested positive for the virus.

The experience of sharing a movie-theater armrest with a stranger may be over, for now at least. The cinema industry, from the biggest chains to independent owners, are reducing capacity as part of the fight against coronavirus. AMC Entertainment Holdings Inc., the market leader, said Friday that it would cut in half the number of tickets it sells for each showing, going beyond what’s required in places with restrictions on gatherings, such as New York, California and Washington. Other companies, such as Alamo Drafthouse, are taking similar measures.

U.S. school food service officials are warning that millions of children could go hungry because of coronavirus closings, with the group calling for more leeway to continue providing subsidized meals during the disruption. “A lot of kids are going to go without food. We know that now on weekends. We know that on holidays,” said Katie Wilson, executive director of the Urban School Food Alliance, an association of nutrition officials for the nation’s largest school systems. “There will be a lot of children with no access to food.”

Sign up to receive the Green Daily newsletter in your inbox every weekday. If it feels as if you’re living through some sort of massive global tipping point, that’s because it’s very possible you are.

It’s quite unlikely that you will die of Covid‑19. The case fatality rate as tracked by the World Health Organization officially stands at 3.5%, but that calculation misses out on a lot of unreported cases in the denominator. In South Korea, where testing for the new coronavirus has been most widespread, the fatality rate is about 0.7%. Then again, in Italy, which has also done a lot of testing, it’s 6.2%. Focusing too much on these estimates, though, can be an exercise in missing the point. For one thing, Covid‑19’s fatality rate is much, much higher for those age 65 and older—who happen to make up a second-highest-in-the-world 22.8% of Italy’s population (Japan is No. 1 at 27.6%), which helps explain some of that country’s problems. Those with preexisting conditions such as heart disease and diabetes also face much higher risks than the rest of us. Perhaps the more important set of statistics to ponder is that in 1918, an estimated 97.3% of people worldwide and 99.3% of Americans didn’t die of influenza. Yet that year’s pandemic still killed more people than any disease outbreak in history. Maybe, just maybe, the biggest concerns that most of us should have about Covid‑19 involve not personal risk but risks to people we care about and to society at large. One key issue is hospital capacity. In the most severe recent flu season, that of 2017‑18, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimated that 45 million Americans contracted influenza-like illnesses, 810,000 were hospitalized, and 61,000 died. That makes for a fatality rate of 0.14%, five times lower than even South Korea’s Covid‑19 death rate. Multiply those 2017‑18 flu hospitalization and fatality numbers by five—or 10, or 20, both of which seem at least conceivable—and it’s easy to see how the rapid spread of the coronavirus could overwhelm U.S. hospitals, which have 924,107 staffed beds total and only 46,500 in medical intensive care units. If that happens, the fatality rate will go up, not just for Covid‑19 but for other ailments as well. It’s probably no coincidence that low-fatality-rate South Korea has the world’s second-most hospital beds per person (Japan is again No. 1), with more than four times as many per capita as the U.S. It’s this prospect of an overwhelmed health-care system that has motivated lockdowns in China and Italy. It has also spurred the intensive efforts to test and isolate Covid‑19 patients that appear to have halted the spread of the disease in several East Asian countries. Epidemiologists in the U.S. seem to be divided on whether it’s still possible to stop the spread of the coronavirus here this way. It’s definitely possible to slow it, though—which is what the current rash of event cancellations, college shutdowns, and  work-from-home advice is about. Almost all of us are going to survive this. The question is whether we can avert a situation where millions of us don’t. —Fox is a columnist for Bloomberg Opinion.

The White House is meeting Friday with executives from the retail, pharmaceutical and technology industries to discuss development of a web portal that would direct people to drive-through sites for coronavirus testing, according to people familiar with the plan. President Donald Trump and top health officials are meeting with executives from Walmart, Target, CVS, Walgreens, LabCorp, Quest Diagnostics and Roche Diagnostics, according to the people, who asked not to be named discussing internal deliberations. Executives from the technology industry were also invited.

The cruise industry has survived torpedoes, terrorists, incompetent captains, the winter vomiting bug, and an iceberg that doomed a ship thought to be unsinkable. Now it may be facing its toughest obstacle yet. On March 8, the U.S. Department of State, in an unprecedented alert, told citizens not to take cruises. Carnival Corp., the industry leader, saw its share price tumble to levels not seen since the Great Recession. Many customers chose to abandon ship. “We are definitely experiencing a high number of cancellations due to the virus,” says Kristy Adler, chief operating officer at Cruise & Resort Inc., a travel agency in Sherman Oaks, Calif. “It’s a very tough time in our industry right now!” Cruise takers are a resilient bunch, but images of guests trapped on ships such as the  Diamond Princess—where more than 700 contracted the virus on an Asian voyage—may scare some off forever. And Carnival on March 9 got its  first lawsuit regarding passengers who’d been stuck with sick guests on the Grand Princess off the California coast. One way Carnival hopes to keep sailing: offering $200 onboard credits to passengers who stick with their scheduled trips.

Colorado today reported its first COVID-19 death, a woman in her 80s with “underlying health conditions,” state officials announced. The death occurred in El Paso County, which includes Colorado Springs.

Johannesburg (AP) -- A controversial king of South Africa's AbaThembu, the traditional clan of founding president Nelson Mandela, has been arrested after allegedly attacking family members with an ax at their royal homestead. South African police confirmed Friday that King Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo has been charged with malicious damage to property and assault by threats.

Sign up for Next China, a weekly email on where the nation stands now and where it's going next. China’s fiscal policy is bewildering. Consider this: four different budgets collectively cover all government revenue and expenditure, but the official deficit -- the main indicator of fiscal policy -- is calculated using only one of them. A considerable part of spending is in the shadows, and some argue the government hides the true size of the deficit. In addition, a lot of liabilities that are ultimately the state’s responsibility aren’t counted on its balance sheet, but on those associated with local governments. That obscures the extent of the national debt -- a key source of stimulus spending employed to respond to shocks such as the coronavirus pandemic.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said the House will pass legislation on Friday to help Americans deal with the spreading coronavirus outbreak without waiting to see whether President Donald Trump will go along.

President Donald Trump said the country’s biggest cruise lines will suspend operations for a month at his request, marking the most sweeping response yet by the industry after a series of coronavirus outbreaks at sea. In a tweet late Friday, Trump said the shutdown will include market-share leader Carnival Corp., as well as Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd., Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd. and MSC Cruises. At my request, effective midnight tonight, Carnival, Royal Caribbean, Norwegian, and MSC have all agreed to suspend outbound cruises for thirty days. It is a great and important industry – it will be kept that way! Trump made clear that the action was taken “at my request,” even though Norwegian and Royal Caribbean had earlier announced “voluntary” suspensions. The cruise industry has been slow to respond to the crisis, even though cases of Covid-19 turned up more than a month ago, starting on a Princess ship operated by Carnival Corp. The highly publicized cases left the industry struggling to demonstrate that it’s safe. The shutdowns appeared to signal that hygiene on ships needs to be improved and that the vacationing public needs to be reassured. The trade group Cruise Lines International Association, whose members make up about 90% of cruise capacity, said the 30-day suspension applied to all of its members and all U.S. ports of call. Many ships, however, remain at sea, and carriers indicated Friday they would assist passengers with travel arrangements home. Earlier this week, the State Department warned Americans to avoid cruising, but many cruise fans flouted the warnings. Princess was the first of the big players to announce a shutdown, saying it will stand down for two months. Until Friday, the industry’s actions paled beside those of other businesses, including professional sports leagues’ decisions to put their seasons on hold and protect fans from arenas where the disease might spread more easily. Two outbreaks of coronavirus on Princess ships have strained public health resources and convulsed the industry, sending stocks plummeting. The first Princess ship, Diamond Princess, was under a lengthy quarantine in Yokohama, Japan, with more than 700 people aboard testing positive for the virus. The Grand Princess docked Monday in Oakland, California, and had 21 confirmed cases. Norwegian shares rose 15% to $11.10 Friday. Shares of Carnival, the industry’s biggest player, advanced 17% to $17.58, while Royal Caribbean shares gained 6.8% to $32.33, but the gains only helped recoup a fraction of the selloff since January.

Follow Bloomberg on LINE messenger for all the business news and analysis you need. Singapore released a crucial electoral boundaries report Friday, setting the stage for an imminent announcement on the country’s next election -- one that’s largely considered to be Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong’s final run at office.

The chairman of Mexico’s stock exchange, Jaime Ruiz Sacristan, has tested positive for coronavirus, becoming the first known high-profile Mexican executive to contract the fast-spreading disease. Ruiz Sacristan will work from home for two weeks following a doctor’s instructions, the stock exchange said in a release. He received the positive test result on Thursday and has had no symptoms, according to the statement.

Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is considering warning Canadians off non-essential travel abroad, as he begins governing from home after his wife contracted the coronavirus. The federal government hinted Thursday it could soon move to support the domestic economy as worry over the viral outbreak and its impact roils financial markets. Lawmakers agreed Friday morning to temporarily suspend the legislature until April 20.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Investors made their biggest dash for cash in history over the week that broke the bull market.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The spreading coronavirus has already begun hurting the most vulnerable companies: those in bankruptcy or teetering on the edge.

Canada’s banking regulator has halted talks on changing its mortgage stress test as it eases capital requirements to free up C$300 billion ($215 billion) of lending capacity to help ensure financial stability during the coronavirus pandemic. The Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions lowered the domestic stability buffer requirement for Canada’s key banks to 1% of risk-weighted assets from the 2.25% level set for the end of April. The buffer -- one of four capital requirements for the biggest banks -- will not increase for at least 18 months, according to the regulator.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. England’s Premier League has suspended all soccer matches, a day after the manager of Arsenal Football Club tested positive for coronavirus. England’s top level of the soccer league system said on Friday that all matches have been suspended “with the intention of returning on April 4, subject to medical advice and conditions at the time.” The Premier League said the Football Association, English Football League and Women’s Super League had also agreed to postpone the professional game in England following an emergency club meeting regarding future fixtures. On Thursday evening, soccer club Arsenal said in a statement that its training center had been closed after head coach Mikel Arteta received a positive COVID-19 test that day. Arsenal personnel who had recent close contact with Arteta, including the full first-team squad and coaching staff, will now self-isolate in line with U.K. government guidance. The Premier League had been facing increasing pressure to take further action, with the news on Arteta followed by a Chelsea statement saying one of its players had a positive coronavirus test result. Callum Hudson-Odoi displayed “symptoms similar to a mild cold on Monday morning” according to a club website statement, and had not been at the training ground since as a precaution. As with Arsenal, those who had recent close contact with Hudson-Odoi will now self-isolate, including the full men team’s squad.

Sign up here to get the Brexit Bulletin in your inbox every weekday. What’s Happening? Business is worried about mixing coronavirus with Brexit.

This year’s Boston Marathon, the world’s oldest annual such race and a local rite of spring, is being postponed to Sept. 14 from April 20 in the wake of mounting concern over the coronavirus.The marathon draws about a million spectators and results in more than $200 million of economic activity, according to Boston Mayor Marty Walsh. Some 30,000 runners typically wend their way through eight Massachusetts cities and towns before finishing in Boston’s Copley Square. Originally a locals-only event, the race began in 1897 as a result of the excitement generated by the first marathon at the 1896 Summer Olympics. It has since become one of the world’s six major marathons, drawing elite runners from across the globe.The long history has been marked by controversy as well as tragedy. In 2013, two bombs set off by terrorists at the finish line killed three and injured 264.

Emerging signs of a rush for dollars in the global financial system have spurred calls for the world’s central banks to use a key tool deployed during the credit crisis more than a decade ago: currency swap lines. The Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index climbed more than 1% for the second time this week on Thursday, reaching a three-year high. The Japanese yen, so often a haven in times of stress, closed little changed despite the biggest stock slide on Wall Street since the 1987 crash. Emerging-market currencies including South Korea’s won and Mexico’s peso have tumbled this week, evidence that foreign investors are yanking money and scrambling into the greenback.

Oscar-winning actor Tom Hanks and his actress wife, Rita Wilson, are taking it “one day at a time” after testing positive for the new coronavirus while in Australia for a movie shoot. In a post on Twitter on Friday, the couple said they’re in isolation to not spread the virus further. They also thanked Australians for their support and urged people to heed the advice of experts and take care of others.

Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Ugandan authorities arrested a former security minister seeking to unseat President Yoweri Museveni, who has been in power for more than three decades.

Indian equities plunged 10% on Monday, triggering a 45-minute trading halt for the second time this month as authorities ordered a lockdown in much of Asia’s third-largest economy to fight the spread of coronavirus cases. The S&P BSE Sensex fell as low as 26,924.11. The suspension will last for 45 minutes. The rupee fell as much as 1.3% to 76.1563 to a dollar, a new low, as foreigners continued to yank money from local stocks and bonds.

When stock prices plummet in a market rout, short sellers often become a target. Regulators can attempt to curtail the plunge by restricting equity short selling, or betting with borrowed shares. Shorts, as these bettors are known, say their trading helps keep markets functioning smoothly. Critics say their actions can blur into market manipulation. During periods of acute market distress, such as early in the coronavirus pandemic, some of the hardest-hit countries again imposed temporary bans -- although to what effect is unclear. Short sellers borrow shares and sell them, hoping to buy them back at a lower price to profit from the difference. But getting the timing right is crucial. If the stock price rises, they could lose money instead.

Greece swore in Friday Aikaterini Sakellaropoulou as the country’s first female head of state in a simplified ceremony in Parliament with fewer officials present to avoid the spread of the coronavirus. Instead of the around 1,000 people that traditionally attend the event, about 100 lawmakers and other officials were present, including Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, most of whom kept a safety distance between each other and who didn’t shake hands.

Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Ivory Coast’s ruling party named Prime Minister Amadou Gon Coulibaly as its candidate for this year’s presidential election.

Near the famed Pebble Beach golf course, two dozen people exposed to the new coronavirus sit confined to a cluster of unused buildings on a California seafront park. Hundreds more have been whisked to military bases in California, Georgia and Texas, to count down two weeks of isolation. In San Francisco, a few may soon be housed in recreational vehicles leased by the city. Georgia is using trailers stationed within a state park called Hard Labor Creek.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. All Champions League and Europa League soccer matches scheduled for next week have been postponed.

Want the lowdown on European markets? In your inbox before the open, every day. Sign up here. The European Central Bank signaled it’s ready to buy more debt of nations such as Italy to calm mounting financial panic, and pushed back against political criticism of President Christine Lagarde’s handling of the coronavirus crisis.

Starbucks Corp. is spending $130 million on its first coffee roasting facility in China, a sign the chain is getting back to normal in the country after shuttering thousands of stores earlier this year as the coronavirus spread. The plant is part of Starbucks new coffee innovation park slated to open in 2022 in the city of Kunshan, an hour from Shanghai, it said in a statement.

Apple Inc. said its annual WWDC conference will be online-only this year, scrapping a gathering that usually attracts thousands of software developers. “WWDC 2020 will take on an entirely new online format,” Apple said in a statement Friday, citing the “current health situation.” The event will still have a full agenda, including an online keynote address and classes for developers to learn about new tools and software, the company added.

JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s wealthy clients suddenly found themselves shut out from trading at the height of this week’s drama in stock markets -- just as prices cratered into the worst rout since 1987. An electronic-trading platform used for catering to wealth-management clients broke down Thursday afternoon as the Dow tumbled by roughly 1,600 points, ending in a historic 10% drop, according to people with knowledge of the matter. The outage hit the group’s Morcom electronic trading platform, which employees use to place orders on behalf of wealthy clients, the people said, asking not to be named because the information isn’t public.

New York City Councilman Mark Gjonaj called on the governor and mayor to temporarily suspend payment of state and city business taxes for restaurants and other operations struggling with declining customer traffic amid the virus scare.  “In some cases, businesses are reporting a drop in sales that is as high as 70% - all while trying to meet payroll, pay government taxes and other expenses,” the councilman said in a statement. “This is an untenable situation.”

One barometer of competence for the world’s governments and health-care systems as they battle the coronavirus pandemic lies in the testing itself. How nations handle the most basic aspect of disease detection may be as important for the trust in governments, and even the survival of some administrations, as it is for the wellbeing of the populations they serve.In the U.S., a top medical official acknowledged on Thursday that the slow roll-out of tests to track down early carriers, and so contain the spread of Covid-19 across a nation of 330 million, was a “failing” for a medical system that’s poorly designed for the task.

Indonesia unveiled an emergency fiscal stimulus plan worth 22.92 trillion rupiah ($1.55 billion) as it seeks to protect Southeast Asia’s largest economy from the coronavirus crisis. The package announced Friday, which includes a raft of tax breaks, would help push the budget deficit to 2.5% of gross domestic product, from an initial target of 1.76%, Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati said. “These won’t be the last measures,” she said.

Canadian stocks rallied into Friday’s close as policymakers stepped up their response to the economic fallout from the coronavirus. The S&P/TSX Composite Index jumped 9.7%, the most since October 2008. This comes after the benchmark plunged 10% on Monday and then 12% on Thursday as the pandemic heightened market fears of a global recession. For the week, the index sank 15%, its biggest weekly drop since the global financial crisis. South of the border, the S&P 500 Index followed a similar pattern with a 9.3% gain on Friday, but still slumped for the week.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. South Africa’s biggest labor group wants the government to come up with a stimulus plan to prepare for the impact of the coronavirus, potentially stretching the country’s already strained finances.

Louis Bacon’s plans to step back from trading haven’t panned out, and the legendary manager is instead making money in the market meltdown. The macro hedge fund manager, who told investors in November he’d be stepping back at Moore Capital Management, has been warning his portfolio managers to be cautious about the potential market fallout of the virus since January, according to people with knowledge of the matter. Moore’s main fund is up by double digits in 2020 after gaining 5% in the first two months of the year and rallying further in March.

This is the particle responsible for Covid-19, the pneumonia-causing disease spreading around the world. The virus is called SARS-CoV-2, short for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2. Like other coronaviruses, SARS-CoV-2 has viral spike proteins, called peplomers, on its surface that allow it to infect human cells. Within the “envelope” of the virus is a long, single-stranded RNA genome. SARS-CoV-2 spikes bind on the human cell surface to receptors called angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2). Human cells that express ACE2 are vulnerable to infection. These are present along the epithelium lining the respiratory and gastrointestinal tracts, including on the tongue and stomach. The spikes latch on to human cells and undergo a structural change, allowing their membrane to fuse with the host cell membrane. The viral genes can then enter the host cell and multiply. The vast surface area of the lungs makes it highly susceptible to inhaled viruses, with the alveoli sacs that help bring oxygen into the blood vulnerable to invasion.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The Danish government is advising Danes to avoid all unnecessary travel abroad for a month and to limit their purchase of medicines as the number of confirmed cases of coronavirus continues to rise.

Canada’s lawmakers are working to tie up loose ends in Ottawa after suspending the House of Commons on Friday, the latest step in the country’s efforts to control the spread of the coronavirus. With Prime Minister Justin Trudeau governing from home after his wife Sophie Gregoire Trudeau tested positive for Covid-19, lawmakers voted unanimously to shutter the legislature until April 20. The motion included a provision that passed the new North American trade deal with the U.S. and Mexico in Canada’s lower house.

An unfamiliar, invisible threat like the novel coronavirus can make people feel helpless and turn inward just when they most need to reach outward, both helping and leaning on others. Here are concrete ways you can help your family, co-workers, and neighbors. Good personal health habits help prevent respiratory infections: Cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue or an elbow sleeve; wash hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds; clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces; and avoid touching one’s eyes, nose, and mouth. But don’t just do it—be conspicuous about it. Talk about it. Make it a community norm. People should stay home when they have a respiratory illness. But many still feel pressured to work. They need hourly wages, are essential personnel, or face looming production goals. If you’re a manager or business owner, implement realistic sick leave policies, be flexible with workplace arrangements—such as allowing people to  work from home—and act on public-health recommendations. For everyone else, don’t make your co-workers feel guilty about not coming in. Novel disease outbreaks can make extra demands on everyday goods and services, such as surgical masks and hand sanitizer. Because community well-being comes from collaboration and not competition, weigh your own needs alongside those of others. Refrain from hoarding items that are in short supply. Be sensible about not exposing frail seniors or people with other health conditions to respiratory illness. Neighbors and family should pitch in with groceries, supplies, and moral support when such people must avoid public spaces. Share phone numbers, email, and messaging contacts so it’s easier to reach out. People who live in racially and ethnically diverse communities should double their efforts at sharing information and offering mutual aid. If the 2009 H1N1 influenza outbreak is a guide, minority groups may face higher rates of complications, hospitalizations, and deaths. Efforts to stem the spread of Covid-19 have sometimes included school closures. This can place huge burdens on working families and keep needy students from regular nutritious meals. In addition, employees at health-care facilities may experience increased work demands, inhibiting them from tending to and feeding their families. Step in where you can to provide alternative child-care and meal options for neighbors and family. When an outbreak emerges, some people blame perceived outsiders or avoid people from groups they assume are contagious. Such behaviors turn a mysterious illness into something that feels more controllable. But these anti-social ways of coping may build on preexisting prejudices and blame victims of infection or their care providers unfairly. They undermine the social bonds we’ll need to get through this and can keep us from the things that we know help. Again: Wash your hands. Cover your cough. And wash your hands. —Schoch-Spana, a medical anthropologist, is a senior scholar with the Center for Health Security at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. (The school is supported by Michael Bloomberg, founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP, parent company of Bloomberg Businessweek.)

Working from home has its perks—including the option to wear sweatpants on conference calls. But those who have recently been advised to stay home indefinitely on account of the current Covid-19 outbreak may find that being productive in pajamas relies on high-quality organizational tools and inspiring home office gear, not just hand sanitizer and canned goods. “It’s important that your home office feels a bit like your home, not a dismal place to be,” says Boston-based designer Mally Skok. Bay Area designer Deneise Duscheone agrees: “Mood motivates.”

The New Jersey cities of Hoboken and Jersey City both reported their first cases of the new coronavirus. A 41-year-old woman from downtown Jersey City tested positive after visiting her own physician, Mayor Steve Fulop said in a statement on Friday.

For a week, he patiently waited in the shadows as Malaysia’s two political giants -- Mahathir Mohamad and Anwar Ibrahim -- vied for the numbers to become the nation’s prime minister. But when the dust settled earlier this month, it was little-known Muhyiddin Yassin who bested his former allies to emerge on top, shifting power back to Malay-dominated coalition including a party that has ruled Malaysia for most of its 63-year history. Now he’s bought more time to consolidate power, delaying parliament -- and a potential leadership challenge -- for at least two months.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Extreme measures by governments across the world to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus could cost the tourism industry 50 million jobs.

After the coronavirus wiped $7.6 trillion off the world’s stock markets in four days, global health groups are asking companies, governments and even the public for billions of dollars to fight the contagion. The World Health Organization set up a website seeking contributions from anyone in an attempt to raise at least $7 billion. Separately, a coalition backed by Bill Gates and Norway is considering a crowdfunding campaign as they seek to attract about $2 billion to speed up development of vaccines.

High school senior Kim Yujin and 29 other young activists in South Korea are suing the government, claiming that parliament’s recent revision to the nation’s climate-change law doesn’t go far enough to protect their future. The students’ complaint to the Constitutional Court in Seoul argues that their fundamental rights, including the right to live and a clean environment, have been infringed by the nation’s climate-change law, which they say fails to set specific targets to prevent global temperatures from rising.

Michael Platt’s BlueCrest Capital Management pulled back from a complex debt-trading strategy that led to losses and the departures of at least two traders, people familiar with the matter said. BlueCrest has reduced the size of its so-called relative-value trading book, which seeks to exploit anomalies in related securities, and cut risk across the firm by about $1 billion in recent weeks, one of the people said. Raymond Wang and Romain Denis, traders who focused on such deals, left after their portfolios slumped, the people said.

President Donald Trump plans to declare a national emergency on Friday over the coronavirus outbreak, invoking the Stafford Act to open the door to more federal aid for states and municipalities, according to two people familiar with the matter. The president said he will hold a news conference at 3 p.m. in Washington. Trump spoke Friday with Emmanuel Macron, the French president tweeted, about the pandemic, and agreed to organize a video conference with world leaders on Monday to coordinate research efforts on a vaccine and treatments and work on how to respond to the economic fallout.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The coronavirus pandemic has transformed the way Joe Biden, Bernie Sanders and President Donald Trump are campaigning, just as the race for the presidency narrows to a few top candidates. And the alternatives will cost the candidates millions of dollars.

Singapore Exchange Ltd. is benefiting from the frenzied buying and selling of assets that the coronavirus outbreak has triggered.  The bourse, which allows the exchange of products from Singaporean shares to FTSE China A50 Index and currency futures, saw its securities market’s trading surge 44% to S$27.5 billion ($19.7 billion) in February from the same period a year ago. Average daily volume of derivatives hit a record 1.24 million contracts, it said on March 9.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Kazakhstan reported its first two cases of coronavirus Friday as central Asia’s biggest oil producer ramped up testing.

India’s trade deficit narrowed in February as exports snapped a six-month losing streak. The gap between exports and imports was $9.85 billion last month, compared with $15.2 billion in January, according to data released by the Commerce Ministry on Friday. That compares with the median estimate of $11.4 billion in a Bloomberg survey of 25 economists.

Follow Bloomberg on  Telegram for all the investment news and analysis you need. Indonesian stocks dropped more than 5%, triggering a trading halt, as a global market rout deepened on concerns about the impact of coronavirus outbreak.

From the outside looking in, Facebook’s new Reality Lab office building in Pittsburgh is nothing opulent. The interior sports a Yinz-gineer charm that marries its nerdy ambitions with the city’s hardscrabble ethos. On one wall hang photos of African-American activists and thinkers, such as Colin Kaepernick, Audre Lorde, and Ta-Nehisi Coates, with kente cloth borders around their faces. On another, small neon-colored collages were assembled with messages like “Claim Your Power” and “Black Stories Matter.”   I was there for a press conference announcing the grand opening of the new Facebook office building, and a futuristic new augmented reality “telepresence” system they are building there. But I couldn’t help but wonder whether the art design choices in the new building were an actual reflection of pro-black and socially just values they hoped to capture within these walls, or just decorations. After all, it was Black History Month. In company materials, Facebook has touted its renewed commitment to diversity: “We are more focused than ever on creating a diverse workforce and supporting our people.” That goal doesn’t come without real effort in an industry that has been mostly the province of white men: Federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission figures state that as of 2014, the tech sector employed a larger share of white and Asian-American men and a smaller share of African Americans and women than were employed in the overall private sector. The Center for Gender Equity in Science and Technology reports that less than .5% of Silicon Valley tech leadership positions are African American women. Opening a new 100,000-square-foot office building that can house as many as 250 employees — the specs for the new Pittsburgh Facebook lab — seems like a particular opportunity to focus on diverse hiring from the start. I wanted to learn how, or if, the company’s diversity focus and new building project had the equity needs of Pittsburgh in mind: The gap between the white and black employment rates is higher than that found in 85% of other cities of similar size, and with “strikingly low black employment despite an otherwise booming economy,” according to the city’s recent race and gender equity report. Press conferences aren’t the most productive venues for having substantive discussions about any topic really, let alone intractable social issues like racial exclusion in the workforce. So I requested a post-visit interview with Facebook Reality Lab research director Yaser Sheikh to talk about it. I forwarded CityLab articles on Pittsburgh’s challenges with tech diversity and hiring black people in general to Facebook’s comms staff to review so that we could have a thoughtful conversation about the issue. But the company passed on the interview request several days later, saying they’re “not quite ready to weigh into this discussion yet.” Instead, I was referred to Facebook’s 2019 diversity report, which states that since 2014 the company has “increased the number of Black women at Facebook by 25X and the number of Black men by 10X.” They also denied my request for statistics on the racial composition of the company’s Pittsburgh staff (Facebook opened its first Reality Lab office in 2015 in another part of the city), which currently employs a little more than 100 employees. Instead, Facebook gave me this statement: Our work creating an inclusive environment where people from all backgrounds can thrive is ongoing. Our progress is founded on an ambitious and incredibly important goal – in the next five years, at least 50% of our workforce will be women, people who are Black, Hispanic, Native American, Pacific Islanders, people with two or more ethnicities, people with disabilities and veterans. We’re striving to be a company that reflects and better serves the people on our platforms, services, and products. But the city of Pittsburgh has its own extensive commitment to diversify its techforce, called the Inclusive Innovation Roadmap. It’s a strategy for Pittsburgh to accomplish its goals of becoming a leader in the tech and innovation industry through the lens of inclusivity, meaning in ways “that benefit all of [Pittsburgh’s] communities.” The Roadmap even comes with its own slogan, often quoted by Pittsburgh’s Mayor Bill Peduto: “If it’s not for all, it’s not for us!” Peduto was present for the new Facebook Reality Labs opening, addressing reporters at the press conference alongside Allegheny County Executive Rich Fitzgerald. Asked how the new Facebook Reality Lab figured into the city’s Inclusive Innovation strategy, Peduto said he had been talking with companies such as Google and Duolingo about getting them “more involved in the fabric of Pittsburgh,” particularly through mentoring and training kids on coding. And he said he’d like to engage the tech companies on a different level as well: through youth football. “What I would like to see is each of our tech firms adopt a youth football team in Pittsburgh,” said Peduto. “So each of the different neighborhoods would be represented by one of these tech giants that would get the kids the opportunity, when they’re not playing football, to walk into an office like this and to imagine themselves as an engineer, to be able to have the workers when they come in on Monday, looking at the stats, to see how well their quarterback did, and to build a bond that we don’t have yet between neighborhoods that are underserved and the tech giants that are moving into the city.” As for diversity strategies for people who aren’t children or don’t like football, Peduto also said that these companies have been hiring mechanics from auto shops, and that Carnegie Mellon University has partnered with the local sheet metal workers union to help build robots. In terms of the company we were actually gathered with that day, he said, “I can’t answer specifically for Facebook, but I’m sure that within the number of jobs they have there are blue-collar as well as white-collar.” County Executive Fitzgerald reminded the press that Facebook was donating $20,000 for tech training programs at the Sara Heinz House, an afterschool youth program that sustains a roughly $3 million annual budget from a healthy Rolodex of corporate donors such as Coca-Cola, Comcast, FedEx, and the Heinz Endowments, affiliated with the Heinz family of ketchup fame. Perhaps it was a bit much to expect a robust discussion on one of the most un-diverse work sectors in one of the most un-diverse cities in the United States. A major explanation for this problem is occupational segregation, according to the city’s 2019 race and gender inequality report: White men are disproportionately clustered in jobs as lawyers and computer programmers in the city while black men and women are disproportionately represented in jobs in maintenance, food service, and as factory workers. So whose responsibility is it to address diverse hiring from the start? According to several black women in the city who’ve been tracking progress on racial and gender equity concerns in Pittsburgh’s tech community, companies like Facebook should be self-motivated to do more diverse hiring. “The tech industry should know, as research has shown, it is in their best interest, financially and socially to diversify,” said Janera Solomon, who co-chairs a task force on employment and entrepreneurship for All-In-Cities, an equitable development initiative for which the city is partnering with Policylink. “If they can make robotic cars work they can make diversity happen.” “Just hire us, it’s not hard,” said Kelauni Cook, a software engineer who moved to Pittsburgh from Chicago several years ago, and has since founded the Black Tech Nation network that supports black tech professionals. “It’s the obligation of companies like Facebook and others to open doors of access in our very diverse nation because we are all a part of the fabric of our technological society.” But she cautions that the seemingly “active aversion” to hiring black women in Pittsburgh is a problem beyond just the local tech sector. Despite the company’s reluctance to discuss diverse hiring in Pittsburgh, how people work in general is very much on the minds of the engineers driving the city’s new Facebook Reality Labs. The purpose of the Pittsburgh lab is to develop an augmented reality system that will transmit a lifelike 3-D image of a user — a Codec Avatar — to another destination. It was billed several times at the grand opening as “the future of work,” allowing people to virtually attend business meetings, conferences, trainings, and college courses in cities across the world. The goal, said Sheikh, is “to help people build communities and build much [deeper] and more meaningful relationships with people no matter where they live."

Sign up here to get the Brexit Bulletin in your inbox every weekday. What’s Happening? Uncertainty abounds as Brexit talks hang in limbo and the coronavirus threat grows.

The two women were on the empty streets of Wuhan for three hours. Zhu E’Yan, 61, pushed her 86-year-old mother Ren Zhengzai down the road in a wheelchair, trying to find the nearest hospital willing to treat a patient with a fever. All bus and taxi services were shuttered. When they finally got to a hospital, the hallways were packed with people coughing, many with IV fluid drips on makeshift beds. Zhu sat on the floor for the entire night as they waited for a room. But none was available. The next day, she wheeled her mother—untreated—home on another three-hour trek. In the next five weeks, they were turned away by one hospital after another—and both women are now dead. Li Yaqing, 38, wasn’t with her mother and grandmother when their ordeal began; she’s reconstructed it from phone calls and texts. In January her grandmother came down with a fever. Rumor had it that people were  contracting a weird disease near the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market. The family didn’t take it seriously at first, because they lived far from the market and Li’s granny rarely left the house except to play mahjong with her friends. Then, after a few days, the old lady began to have trouble breathing. At the same time, the rest of Wuhan went into lockdown. On phone calls, mother and grandmother told Li—who lived alone in her own apartment—about the illness but said she shouldn’t visit because they didn’t want her to be infected. She called everyone she knew who might have influence to try to get help. Li made hundreds of calls, to the police, hospital emergency lines, government directories, and hotlines listed by netizens. No one answered. She blasted posts seeking help on Chinese social media including WeChat, Weibo, and ByteDance. She pleaded for help with the local authorities who enforced quarantine in her neighborhood. After three days, a community hospital notified them of a spot for her grandmother. But it was too late. She died that night. The community authorities then dispatched people to disinfect the woman’s apartment. On the same day, Li’s mother, Zhu, came down with a fever. At Wuhan Hankou Hospital, her lungs showed mild signs of infection. But she tested negative on the nucleic acid test, which identifies the virus in a patient’s body through its specific genetic sequence. A lack of test kits and the unreliability of test results caused many patients to be excluded during the early weeks of the outbreak. They told Zhu to go home and take pills to bring her fever down. After six days of self-quarantine, on Feb. 6, she began to have trouble breathing and started vomiting. Three days later, the authorities moved her, not to a hospital but to a hotel, where she continued to go untreated. On Feb. 10, after more online pleading and phone calls by Li, her mom was rushed to an intensive care unit. She called Li to ask her to tap more of her connections to get her into a better hospital. “She was going through a mental breakdown,” her daughter says. Zhu had seen two of her ward mates die by then. “I told her, ‘You’re in the ICU because I pulled all the strings I could,’ and she got upset and hung up the phone.” Li would desperately try to find help—even unproven cures—for her mother. But, she said of the phone call, “that was our last exchange.” Beginning on Feb. 15, the hospital put Zhu on a feeding tube, a catheter, and, eventually, a respirator. The next few days were full of dread, and Li’s heart sank every time the phone rang, fearing bad news. She finally got the call at 8 a.m. on Feb. 26: The doctors said her mother might not make it. By the time she got to the hospital, her mother had died, her body wrapped in plastic and cremated. “People who die are just a number on paper,” she says. “My grandma didn’t even make it as a number,” because she died before testing positive for the novel coronavirus. “The worst part is I couldn’t be there to take care of them in person. I never saw my mom, or even got to say goodbye to her in her final days.”

When coronavirus cases first emerged in Washington state in February, King County officials spent $4.5 million in emergency funds to buy an 85-room Econolodge in the greater Seattle area, throwing another $1.5 million on top for renovations. As the epicenter of one of the largest outbreaks in the U.S., King County anticipated that its hospitals would likely become overwhelmed with a surge of patients. The county needed to make more space to put sick individuals who would need to be isolated but wouldn’t require hospitalization, and for people who don’t have a home to be isolated or quarantined in — like the homeless or those living in shelters. With coronavirus cases escalating in the U.S., other cities may soon also face a shortage of space. Whereas in Wuhan, China, where the global outbreak originated, the national government was able to step in to build two large hospitals in a matter of weeks to house the sick and protect the rest of the public, the division of power in the U.S. places that burden on the local government. (Plus, “it's too darn expensive,” says Howard Markel, a medical historian at the University of Michigan.) America’s defense against epidemics “is divided among 2,684 state, local, and tribal public-health departments,” Emory University legal historian Polly Price recently wrote in The Atlantic. These localities are responsible for everything from monitoring cases and deciding when to close schools or ban public gatherings, to deciding how to separate sick individuals from the rest of the public. The U.S. once owned quarantine stations, largely to house incoming immigrants and returning citizens who were sick or suspected of harboring a disease, but those have become a thing of the past. Facilities like those on Angel and Ellis Islands, which were equipped with hospitals, disinfecting plants, laboratories, and hundreds of beds, were torn down in the 1950s. Today, “state and federal governments are not sitting around with a lot of facilities just ready for quarantine,” Price told CityLab. “It's not something they do, so you have to scramble to find appropriate facilities.” That is, facilities to quarantine people who are not sick but who may have been exposed to the virus, to isolate infected individuals with mild symptoms, and to house people in recovery. This includes housing some people who might normally be sent to a hospital during less space-constrained times. According to a report from the Johns Hopkins University Center for Health Security, some 200,000 people across the country may need intensive care even in a moderate scenario, but U.S. hospitals only have about 46,500 ICU beds, with an equal number of other medical beds that can be converted during a crisis. And with a nationwide delay in testing, it's possible that hospitals could see a surge of patients at once. So, should health departments be collecting vacant facilities, as some have suggested on Twitter, from hotels to dead malls to stadiums? It wouldn’t be uncommon. In times of crisis, particularly natural disasters, cities have converted public and private properties — like gyms, churches, and stadiums — into treatment centers, says Amesh Adalja, an expert on pandemic preparedness at Johns Hopkins University. Given the contagious nature of the virus, though, converted spaces will have to meet strict requirements to prevent the disease from spreading. They need to have individual rooms for each person with separate HVAC systems, and doors that open from the outside to  each room. Or the units have to be separate. They also have to be humane, Price says, as people in quarantine and in isolation are physically disconnected from the outside world for days and weeks at a time.   Most of the tens of thousands of Americans who are currently being quarantined — that is, healthy people suspected of possible virus exposure — have been asked to stay home, where most people already have all these criteria in place. In fact, “the most logical place is in their own home,” says Markel. But for residents who are homeless and vulnerable to eviction, cities will need to take extra steps. “I would expect large urban areas to already be thinking about what to do if there is an outbreak in a homeless shelter, and we have to shut it down,” says Price. In the U.S., homeless people are especially vulnerable because they skew older, tend to live in close quarters either in shelters or encampments, and lack access to basic hygienic services. That makes homelessness an especially large threat for densely packed cities already experiencing large outbreaks, including Seattle, New York, and San Francisco, all of which have some of the highest unhoused population. To move people off the streets, Seattle plans to expand up tiny-home villages throughout the city and convert a former rehab center into shelter. Both King County and San Francisco have also set up temporary housing for people who need to be quarantined or isolated but who are homeless or live in close quarters with multiple people. In addition to the motel King County purchased, officials are setting up more than a dozen modular units in parking lots. San Francisco plans to turn 30 recreational vehicles into temporary housing. Other cities, meanwhile, are taking precautionary measures to stave off a mass outbreak among the homeless. To address its housing affordability issue, San Jose has adopted a moratorium on evictions during the outbreak, and San Francisco is expected to pass similar legislation. In Los Angeles, health workers are visiting shelters to encourage people to practice good hygiene while urging staff to find isolation spaces for anyone showing symptoms. They’ll also be on the streets to treat people living in encampments. It’s not just the homeless population that cities have to make room for. “Maybe you’re a patient who is out of the hospital, out of the active treatment phase, but you have someone who is high-risk, elderly or a pregnant spouse at home, so you can’t go there,” King County spokesman Chase Gallagher told a local T.V. station, adding that the motel would also serve those people. Other local governments may follow in King County’s foot steps and buy private property like hotels with emergency funding to house people. Another potential site option, says Adalga, is vacant nursing homes, of which there are plenty in the U.S, despite the shortage of elder care workers. In some states, declarations of emergencies may expand officials’ power to temporarily take over private property for public use, according to Price. Finding a place to house potential and confirmed Covid-19 cases can still be difficult. For one thing, it can be challenging to find a building that meets the strict requirements for isolation and quarantining. In Michigan, Kent County executive Adam London told Detroit News that finding “even a small number of units can be challenging,” in part because vacant hotels are hard to come by in the city. Then there are American citizens being repatriated. In California, officials are still evacuating more than 2,500 passengers from the Grand Princess cruise ship who will need to be quarantined after 21 people on board tested positive for the virus. In this case, the federal government — which is responsible for the evacuation and working with state and city government to quarantine those people — is converting military bases, the most abundant of government-owned facilities, into quarantine sites in California, Georgia, and Texas But even those are limited, and without all levels of the government on board, Price says, such plans spark conflict. A dozen passengers who have mild symptoms but have not been tested for the coronavirus were sent to a state-owned conference center in Monterey County. That prompted concerns from local officials who say the state did not notify them beforehand and essentially gave the county no option but to accept the passengers. A district supervisor told Mercury News that her residents are anxious, and that the sudden news is already affecting the city's tourism-driven economy. Back in King County, Washington, the move to buy a hotel isn’t without controversy, as Kent city officials protest the county’s decision. “They are replicating and bringing a situation similar in scale to the Life Care Center of Kirkland and dropping it off in Kent,” Mayor Dana Ralph said at a news conference last Wednesday, referring to the nursing home that’s at the center of King County’s coronavirus-related deaths. The city filed a motion to put a temporary restraining order on the county, and after a county judge denied it, Ralph pledged to continue the fight in court. “If you look back at our more distant past, it’s common for regions, if they see an outbreak spreading, to try to do everything to keep it from coming to them,” Price says. “The thought is, ‘We don't want these facilities in our backyard.’”

Bombardier Inc. replaced the chief executive officer who orchestrated its breakup and appointed one of its former managers to lead a smaller company focused solely on business jets. Alain Bellemare, an outsider who was hired five years ago by the founding family to turn Bombardier around, will be succeeded by Eric Martel, the CEO of Canada’s biggest electric utility, Hydro-Quebec. Martel will take over April 6, Bombardier said in a statement.

Want to receive this post in your inbox every day? Sign up for the Balance of Power newsletter, and follow Bloomberg Politics on Twitter and Facebook for more. Europeans woke up this morning to a diminished world outlook.

In late January, entrepreneur Ermanno Vitali, 41, decided he would leave Nanjing, China, with his Chinese wife and two of his three daughters and return to his central Italian hometown of Monterubbiano. The novel coronavirus was already spreading in and beyond Wuhan, about 335 miles from Nanjing, and the long Chinese New Year’s holiday would be a good time to sit out the outbreak in his native land. After two weeks of quarantine at the behest of Chinese authorities, he and his family flew off to Italy where they would join his third daughter, who lived near Monterubbiano with Vitali’s parents and attended school there. He didn’t get the welcome he expected from his hometown. Within days of his return, news of the Vitalis’s return from China spread like wildfire in WhatsApp groups and among the parents of his daughter’s classmates. The walls, bus stops, and schools of Monterubbiano were plastered with anonymous messages warning the local population to stay away from the family. “They came back secretly from China, the Vitalis, without notifying the authorities,” read the notices, which had been handwritten and photocopied. “They are dangerous.” “As soon as we arrived, a hunt for ‘plague-spreaders’ started,” he says, using a term familiar to Italians from their school days. The classic 19th century novel The Betrothed recounts a plague in Milan in the 17th century. As contagion spreads, the terrified population starts looking for untori, or plague-spreaders, on whom to vent their anger. In a memorable scene in the book, a mob exacts summary justice on a suspected untore. Vitali, chief executive officer of the Chinese branch of Faam, an Italian battery maker, is well aware of the complicated feelings Italians have for China. He’s witnessed how China’s rise in the past 20 years created opportunity and hostility in one of Europe’s most fragile economies. As many Italians see it, competition from China’s manufacturers since the late 1990s contributed to the country’s slow economic decline. At the same time, China has been a boon for Italian exporters—from Prada to Ferrari to hundreds of smaller companies like Faam. Italian consumers also spend billions of euros on Chinese-made goods such as smartphones and toys. But the animosity has been simmering, with occasional flare-ups of anti-Chinese demonstrations in cities such as Prato, near Florence, and Milan, home to large Chinese immigrant communities. The outbreak of Covid-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus, helped bring the anger into the open. Luca Zaia, governor of the Veneto region and a member of the anti-migrant League party, said the virus spread in China because it lacks a culture of hygiene and food safety compared to Europe. “We have all seen them eat live rats or other stuff,” he said in a TV interview, only to apologize some days later in a letter to the Chinese ambassador in Rome. In Monterubbiano, the Vitalis decided to self-quarantine again, pulling their daughter from school and avoiding social contact, even though at the time the Italian government was imposing no restrictions on returnees from China. No other incident occurred, and the family joined the local Carnevale festivities in late February. “Even if someone doesn’t love us,” Vitali says, “Most of the town does.” Still, the posters had shaken the family. Vitali decided to return to Nanjing with his wife and all three daughters in early March. He thought the timing might be opportune for his business: a competitor in Wuhan was struggling amid the containment. However, by then Italy had become the epicenter of the contagion in Europe. The Chinese authorities, fearful that the contagion would return just as it appeared to be getting under control, informed the family they would have to undergo yet another quarantine. In an additional twist, Vitali’s plans to expand his business were hampered by Italian measures that threw snags into that end of his supply chain. “It’s kind of ironic to be pushed back from China after what happened in my hometown,” Vitali said with a laugh a few days before his scheduled departure. “But maybe we can learn a lesson. I hope that fear can bring us all together.” There was one final hurdle: on March 9, Italy imposed a nationwide quarantine—but the Vitalis made it out two days later.

House Democrats introduced their multibillion-dollar response to the economic dislocations caused by the coronavirus outbreak, legislation that would provide emergency paid sick leave, enhanced unemployment benefits, and free coronavirus testing. Speaker Nancy Pelosi plans to have the chamber vote on the bill Thursday, a day after President Donald Trump announced his own plan to try to contain the virus and deal with the economic impact.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Irish authorities will close schools, colleges and childcare centers, and limit indoor and outdoor gatherings in a bid to slow down the spread of the coronavirus.

Want the lowdown on what's moving European markets in your inbox every morning? Sign up here. Good morning. Donald Trump is restricting travel from Europe, the virus is officially a pandemic and the European Central Bank is meeting. Here’s what’s moving markets.

With a $5.9 billion budget and a decade of planning behind it, the 2020 Summer Olympics in Tokyo had been expected to draw 11,000 of the world’s elite athletes and more than 600,000 tourists when it starts in late July. But with the coronavirus spreading rapidly, and Japan having already closed schools and canceled public events, the International Olympic Committee is reportedly assessing its options—including a games with few, if any, spectators. That prospect is becoming less unthinkable by the day. Some U.S. college basketball, European soccer, and Japanese baseball teams are competing in empty venues. The annual Formula One race in Bahrain on March 22 will be run without any fans. Even the Olympic torch-lighting ceremony, which usually takes place in Greece amid much fanfare, is scheduled to occur this week without spectators. For organizers, an Olympics behind closed doors may be the best of a bunch of bad options. It would satisfy the athletes and, equally important, the media companies that pay the IOC billions to broadcast the events—but only if they happen. What’s more, in-person fans are a diminishing source of revenue. When Atlanta hosted the 1996 Summer Games, tickets accounted for 25% of the budget. In Tokyo, they are half that. In a sign of things to come, Japan’s bid for the 2022 World Cup included technology to broadcast the matches worldwide using holograms, meaning a packed stadium in Brazil could see the games unfold on the field much like those seeing the real event in Osaka. “If it’s an issue of people physically being unable to go to the games, that’s not as big an issue as people [not] watching the games through broadcasts,” says Harvey Schiller, a longtime sports and media executive who ran the U.S. Olympic Committee from 1990 to 1994. Of the $5.7 billion the IOC earned in the last four-year Olympic cycle, almost three-quarters came from media companies. An additional 18% came from top-tier sponsors, most of which are locked into the Olympics far beyond 2020. The loser in this scenario is Tokyo. Japanese organizers are on the hook for selling $840 million in tickets. And while the IOC’s partners sign on for multiple cycles, the host committee landed dozens of local sponsorships—worth a record $3.3 billion—specifically for these games. Sponsors’ planned activities can be substantial. Bridgestone Corp., the only worldwide Olympic partner based in Tokyo, expects to host several hundred customers, partners, and employees during the three weeks of the games. It’s renting a fan experience location in Tokyo Waterfront City with product displays, games, and demos. The official Tokyo 2020 buses will have Bridgestone tires, two new sporting venues will be earthquake-proof thanks to supports made with Bridgestone rubber, and the company has sponsored 75 athletes who can appear in global ad campaigns. For Bridgestone and other big sponsors, those hospitality and promotional efforts lose a lot of their value if few fans turn out in Tokyo. The local economy was also counting on the games. From 2015 to 2019, more than 80,000 hotel rooms opened in Japan, many in anticipation of the event. The 205-room Moxy Tokyo Kinshicho, a Marriott International hotel in east Tokyo, was entirely booked by a single party for the Olympics, says Seth Sulkin, whose real estate development firm Pacifica Capital developed the hotel. “We expect the prominence of the Olympics to boost Japan’s tourism for years to come,” he says. “That’s one of the reasons it’s critical that it happens—not for the short-term impact, but for the long-term impact.” Goldman Sachs analysts predicted the Japanese economy would get a $7.6 billion (800 billion yen) lift from the games, including $1.4 billion from inbound visitors and an additional $3.8 billion in domestic spending. If the virus isn’t contained by the end of May and the Olympics are canceled, Goldman estimates the economy could face losses eight times that total not only by losing the direct boost but also from the lingering effect on tourism, domestic consumption, exports, and capital investment. The number of foreign visitors tripled, to 32 million annually, in the five years after Tokyo won the bid, but it’s still shy of the 40 million target. “People are expecting the Olympics to complete Tokyo’s standing as an international tourism hub,” says Hideo Kumano, an economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute. “Missing that goal would cause irreparable damage.” The IOC, with a $900 million reserve fund for interrupted games, would likely help backstop the host committee if needed. Both groups have insurance, though both declined to offer coverage details. “We have never discussed canceling the Games,” the host committee wrote in an email. “Preparations for the Games are continuing as planned.” Empty seats at sporting events are increasingly common. College football attendance has dropped in eight of the past nine years; MLB attendance is down 14% since 2007. But media money has bulked up budgets, and media companies hold evermore sway over decisions. That’s dangerous for the IOC, because empty stands would likely make it tougher to interest prospective host cities. As it is, fewer places want what’s become a dubious honor. Beijing was awarded the 2022 Winter Games over the only other bidder, Almaty, Kazakhstan. The 2026 games had no fully viable bidders six months before the IOC was set to announce a winner. It eventually went jointly to Milan and Cortina d’Ampezzo in Italy. And there’s another reason that competing in a packed stadium might be critical, even in this broadcast-centric era. “Fans give the impression that the event is highly relevant,” says Rick Burton, former chief marketing officer for Team USA. That’s something money can’t buy. —With Yoshiaki Nohara, Ayai Tomisawa, and Lisa Du

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Dubai asked government employees to work remotely to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Abu Dhabi also activated a similar system for some of its employees.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. One of Spain’s deputy prime ministers was placed in quarantine after his partner, who is also a minister, became the first member of the cabinet to be diagnosed with coronavirus. Deaths from the disease surged in 24 hours.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Turkey reported 29 new cases of coronavirus Monday as it suspended public prayers at mosques and shut down hamams in a set of dramatic steps to limit the spread of the coronavirus and its economic fallout.

Venezuela is suspending flights from Europe and Colombia to slow the pandemic that threatens to overwhelm its crumbling health system. Authorities have administered “tens” of tests for the new coronavirus, all of which were negative, President Nicolas Maduro said.

Bank of America cut its ratings and price targets on several homebuilders and building products companies as the firm is bracing for the “inevitable” coronavirus impact on the U.S. housing market. The firm on Thursday downgraded Lennar Corp. and NVR Inc. to neutral from buy and cut Toll Brothers Inc. and Foundation Building Materials Inc. to underperform from neutral and buy, respectively. KB Home was raised to buy from neutral as BofA sees “substantial first-time buyer offerings” providing “some degree of resiliency” compared to the overall market.

Spain’s La Liga says it is suspending competition following the announcement of Real Madrid’s quarantine earlier this morning and possible cornavirus cases in other teams. “La Liga believes that the circumstances are now right to move to the next phase of the action protocol against Covid-19”, the organization said in a statement Thursday morning.

Former U.S. Treasury Secretary Larry Summers said the world’s largest economy now confronts a stagnation like Japan’s as government bond yields plunge to ultra-low levels. “We’re essentially at the Japanese place,” Summers said in a Bloomberg Television interview Thursday. “That’s a place that’s very hard to get out of, as the Japanese experience suggests, and increasingly the European experience suggests.”

Sign up to receive the Green Daily newsletter in your inbox every weekday. On Monday, Russia and Saudi Arabia signaled the start of an oil price war with plans to pump millions more barrels of oil than the world currently consumes. As of the close of U.S. trading on Wednesday, benchmark Brent and West Texas Intermediate crudes were trading more than 45% off their highs of earlier this year. With industrial activity in China still lower than normal due to the Covid-19 pandemic, gasoline prices could head significantly lower—and stay lower for some time.

NASCAR announced it will hold races in Atlanta and Miami without fans. To view the source of this information click here

Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Long-suffering Zambians and Zimbabweans finally may have something to cheer: daily power cuts that have lasted as long as 18 hours may soon diminish as floodwaters cascade toward the near-empty hydropower dam that’s their biggest source of electricity.

Next week’s negotiations in London between the U.K. and European Union over their post-Brexit relationship have been called off because of the coronavirus. The second round of face-to-face talks, scheduled to start  on March 18, won’t take place as planned, the U.K. and EU said in a joint statement on Thursday. The discussions involve more than 100 negotiators from the two parties.

In Milan, churches sit empty as the faithful follow Mass on television. And with five months to go before Islam’s most sacred pilgrimage, it’s  unclear if Saudi Arabia will reopen holy sites to millions of foreign Muslims. Able-bodied believers are required to make the 10-day hajj, set for late July and August, once in their lives. Visas for the umrah, a shorter pilgrimage that can be made throughout the year, have been  suspended. Religion asks people not only to gather together, but often to touch and share food. Now everyday rites and traditions are being interrupted. Some synagogues in the U.S. have discouraged hugging or kissing to greet one another—one in New Jersey suggests a slight bow at the hips or a friendly wave when saying “Shabbat shalom.” In Hong Kong, some churches took away hymnals to minimize contact with possibly contaminated surfaces. Others stopped singing, to limit the expelling of droplets. Some Catholic dioceses in the U.S. told parishes to suspend offering  wine for communion. A  religious group in South Korea was linked to a spike in cases there. Some churches were also identified as coronavirus clusters in Singapore, where many congregations have now moved activities online. Employees go online to fulfill pastoral care and administrative duties. Bible studies, sermons, and some group meetings have moved to platforms such as Zoom, Google Hangouts, and Facebook Live. Employees at the Hindu temple Akshardham in New Delhi have been asked to wash their hands six to eight times a day. The temple receives as many as 10,000 visitors a day. Juliana Lee, whose husband and two young sons attend Our Lady of Mount Carmel Church in Hong Kong, says the suspension of Sunday classes for kids and Masses are prudent measures. “You’re packed like sardines in a church,” she says. “You’re sitting and kneeling, holding hands, going up to take the host, and dipping it in wine. It doesn’t feel comfortable right now to be in an enclosed space with lots of worshippers.” Her sons are doing Bible lessons sent to them by email instead, and the family plans on catching Mass online. Religions have more experience than any other institutions in the world in dealing with epidemics and surviving them. But the economic cost limiting the spread of the coronavirus in places of worship and devotion is significant. The hajj and umrah pilgrimages contribute an estimated $12 billion a year—or 7%—to Saudi Arabia’s gross domestic product. In Hong Kong, one church in a district popular with expatriates is in dire straits. St. Anne’s has seen a decline in members, some of whom relocated after the city was gripped by months of protests. That, plus suspended services, has caused a sharp fall in income from donations at Mass, says parish priest Paulus Waris Santoso. “If we do nothing, we’ll collapse,” he says. Community Church Hong Kong has seen attendance drop by more than half, says its pastor, Steve Gaultney. The majority of donations to it come as electronic payments, and the church is working to expand such options, and to use technology to keep people connected. “All churches will be impacted by the coronavirus,” Gaultney says. —With Kari Lindberg, K. Oanh Ha, Daniele Lepido, Natnicha Chuwiruch, Ragini Saxena, Vivian Nereim, and Felice Maranz

Slack Technologies Inc.’s shares plunged after the company forecast disappointing quarterly sales, signaling that stronger competition from Microsoft Corp.’s rival workplace-communications tool has taken a toll on the software maker. Still, Chief Executive Officer Stewart Butterfield said the migration of corporate employees forced to work from home because of the coronavirus is generating a “surge” of interest in the platform.

Italy’s school shutdown is driving a surge in internet traffic as kids turn to online video games to stave off boredom. With schools, shops and restaurants closed in an attempt to limit Europe’s worst coronavirus outbreak, the amount of data passing through Telecom Italia SpA’s national network has surged by more than two-thirds in the past two weeks, the company said.

The Justice Department is under increasing pressure to take measures to prevent an outbreak of coronavirus in federal prisons across the U.S., including finding ways to quickly identify and isolate infected prisoners. In response, the department’s Federal Bureau of Prisons told the largest union representing federal correction officers during a meeting on Thursday that it’s poised to announce major steps to deal with the challenge, according to Joe Rojas, a union official.

The campaigns of Joe Biden and Bernie Sanders said they’d asked staff to work from home in response to the coronavirus outbreak. The Biden campaign will close its Philadelphia headquarters and field offices across the U.S. for at least two weeks starting Saturday to protect staff and the public, campaign adviser Anita Dunn and newly appointed campaign manager Jen O’Malley Dillon said in a memo to staff.

In the time of coronavirus, to log in to Twitter or Facebook is to be bombarded with posts about infection rates, hand sanitizer and social distancing. Airlines are dropping flights, countries are tightening borders, and concerts and conferences have been canceled. But there’s one place where it’s possible to escape the outbreak: Instagram. On Instagram, the Facebook Inc.-owned photo-sharing app, many high-profile users still seem to be on vacation. Travel influencers -- the app’s famous authorities on the most ’grammable sunsets and resorts -- are continuing their posts unabated. “We see it as our role to help support tourism during these tough times,” said Kate Torpy and Olly Neville, the couple behind @KOTravellers. Their most recent dispatches, posted to their 342,000 followers, showcase idyllic weather and suntans in Fiji, the Maldives and Japan. None mentions the virus, or the havoc it’s wreaking on international travel and commerce.

The Democratic primary debate scheduled for Sunday night in Phoenix, Arizona, will now be held in CNN studios in Washington amid concerns about coronavirus, the Democratic National Committee said in a statement. The one-on-one debate between Joe Biden and Bernie Sanders was moved out of “an abundance of caution,” said a statement from DNC spokeswoman Xochitl Hinojosa.

Some of the richest U.S. universities are scrambling to come up with a new and once inconceivable calculus: how much money to refund students. Harvard College, Princeton University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology are among a handful of schools that plan to prorate room and board costs as the coronavirus has forced them to send students home.

Medical historian Howard Markel remembers attending New York City’s St. Patrick’s Day parade back in 2000. As marching bands, dancers, and floats came down Fifth Avenue, sidewalks on either side were jam-packed with spectators. “There was also a great deal of drinking going on that begins hours before the parade,” he says. “And drunk people don’t make good decisions.” He left soon thereafter. The health risks posed by the annual event, which typically draws some 2 million visitors and 150,000 marchers to Manhattan, became the focus of New York City’s coronavirus outbreak response this week, with New York City mayor Bill de Blasio insisting until Wedenesday that the iconic parade would go on, even as scores of other cities — including Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Chicago and even Dublin — canceled their St. Patrick’s Day observances. Finally, shortly before midnight on Wednesday, New York State Governor Andrew Cuomo announced that, for the first time in more than 250 years, the parade would be postponed. Confirmed cases of Covid-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus, have surpassed 1,300 in the U.S. as of March 12, but with delays in testing, actual figures are likely far larger. Health experts are stepping up their message urging strict social-distancing measures: quarantines for people who may have been exposed to the virus, closing schools, promoting telework, and banning or discouraging public gatherings. New York’s insistence that its St. Patrick’s Day festivities would proceed stood out as an increasingly awkward exception to this lockdown approach, thanks not only to its size (it’s the largest St. Pat’s parade in the world) but its alcohol-fueled rowdiness. As in other places that host these citywide frat parties, the event is something of an epidemiologist’s nightmare: Packed sidewalks along the route mean it’s not uncommon for families admiring leprechaun-themed floats to stand inches away from attendees puking up the contents of their morning pub crawl. (Since New York’s bars are still open, those pub crawls will continue this weekend, according to PubCrawl.com, which organizes bar-hopping excursions in several U.S. cities.) Even without the booze, though, parades are especially concerning to health experts, as the coronavirus appears to spread easily when groups are in close quarters. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends that people maintain “social distance” (described as being at least six feet away from another person). The size and scope of the gathering matter little to Markel, who teaches the history of medicine at the University of Michigan. “Big parades, small parades, organized parades, disorganized parades — being in a crowd right now, particularly if you are in a high-risk group, is just not advisable,” he says. What matters more is “who is in the mix, and who you are standing next to.” The lethality of combining of parades and pandemics was made tragically evident a hundred years ago. On September 28, 1918, as World War I was coming to an end, some 200,000 people flooded the streets of Philadelphia for a patriotic parade intended to raise $259 million in government bonds to help fund America’s war effort. But the U.S. had just experienced the first wave of a deadly influenza outbreak that had been sweeping the globe, and was at the beginning of a second wave. Some 600 sailors in Philadelphia were infected just days earlier, likely having contracted the disease from returning troops. In the 24 hours leading up to the parade, 118 new cases were detected, according to a local newspaper report that didn’t run until later that afternoon, according to the Philly Voice.  Anxiety over what became known as the Spanish flu had yet to hit the public, and the city — ignoring warnings from physicians — went ahead with the parade. A week later, 2,600 were dead from the flu, and the number of cases rose to 4,500 the week after. Officials later closed schools, churches, theaters, and other public gathering places, but much of the damage had already been done. More than 12,000 city residents would die in the next weeks, though Markel says the deaths can’t be entirely pinned on the parade itself. Philadelphia, like several other cities at the time, took several missteps, including trying to prevent panic early in the epidemic by downplaying its threat and assuring the public that the flu wouldn’t spread beyond military camps. When the virus rapidly spread, the city was unprepared. There weren’t enough beds among the city’s 31 hospitals, medical staff were overworked and catching the flu themselves, and it wasn’t until October 2 that the mayor committed $100,000 in emergency funding.Other cities managed to limit mortality by taking more proactive social-distancing measures: In St. Louis, for example, city leaders closed schools, churches and theaters and banned gatherings of more than 20 people. “St. Louis did everything early and layered more than one intervention option, and for a long time,” Markel says. “And they had a wonderful health commissioner, Max Starkloff, who knew how to deal with the people, with the mayor, with the newspaper, and the school boards. It was that rare leadership that’s really important.” That leadership paid off, as St. Louis experienced one of the lowest mortality rates among large U.S. cities. “Of the 31,500 who got sick in St. Louis,” KMOV4 reports, “only 1,703 died.” While the coronavirus outbreak differs from the 1918 flu pandemic in several ways — from the viruses themselves to the advancement of medical technology — the threat posed by public gatherings remains. Witness the two-day biotech leadership conference that became the epicenter of a Covid-19 outbreak in Boston, responsible for at least 70 of 92 infections in Massachusetts as of Tuesday and many more in other states. “The virus raced through this two-day conference at a frightening speed that state health officials and company executives were unable to match,” the Boston Globe writes.  4. Esther Kim (@k_thos) and I have created this illustration of why it is critical that we #slowthespread of #coronavirus. Freely available for any use under the CC-BY-2.0 license. Please share broadly. pic.twitter.com/OAVeGnIIXt That’s why Markel and other health experts so emphasize the significance of implementing social-distancing measures early to stem community spread and “flatten the curve,” or reduce and delay peak outbreak through control measures so as to not overwhelm hospitals. So far, the ever-louder call to cancel everything has halted everything from festivals like South by Southwest and Coachella to Seattle’s public schools to the NBA season. In Washington state, Governor Jay Inslee also took extra measures to ban all large public gatherings in its largest metropolitan area, while King County officials are going even further and prohibiting events smaller than 250 people that don’t meet public health requirements like the CDC’s six-foot rule. Many more marquee public events are coming up as spring approaches in the U.S., like Washington, D.C.’s famous Cherry Blossom Parade. Markel says that while they don’t all have to be called off right now, city officials should prepare to heed the lessons of past outbreaks. “It’s not an issue about preventing the spread — it never was,” he says. “It’s an issue of minimizing the number of patients. So why would do anything to increase your chance of a case?”

Amazon.com Inc. is recommending that employees worldwide work from home through the end of March to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, according to an email sent to staff on Thursday. Previously, the e-commerce giant had advised workers in outbreak hotspots -- including Amazon’s headquarters in the Seattle area, the San Franscisco Bay Area, New York City and northern Italy -- to stay home.

Turkey on Thursday started screening Europe-bound refugees for high fevers after the country confirmed its first case of coronavirus this week. Erdogan Uses Thermal Camera to Keep Coronavirus

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Some of Wall Street’s biggest firms are trying out a plan for fighting the spread of the highly contagious and deadly coronavirus: staggering their employees’ visits to the office.

Italian supercar maker Lamborghini is halting production for nearly two weeks as parent Volkswagen AG looks to limit the impact on its operations from the coronavirus crisis that has spread across the globe. Lamborghini will temporarily close its plant in Italy, which has been hit hard by the viral outbreak, until March 25, the company said Thursday in an emailed statement. All of the brand’s cars are manufactured at its headquarters plant on the outskirts of the northern Italian city of Bologna.

Singapore must consider tapping past reserves to help its people as well as businesses that are “bleeding” from the impact of the coronavirus outbreak, President Halimah Yacob said, as the city-state experiences a spike in new cases of the disease. “Many of our companies, particularly those related to the tourism industry, but more broadly other sectors as well, are bleeding because of disrupted supply chains, rapidly falling demand and tightening cash flows,” Halimah said in a Facebook post Wednesday.

President Donald Trump declared a state of emergency that would free up $50 billion for the testing and care of the rising number of coronavirus cases in the U.S. in a tight election year battered by financial collapse.“Two very big words,” he said after declaring the national emergency. Trump also outlined a public-private partnership in testing. Stocks gained the most since 2008. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said she’d drafted a bill with free testing and 14 days sick leave. The Senate will vote next week.

The coronavirus pandemic drove Japan’s biggest weekly purchase of global debt on record by its traditionally cautious funds. With yields from the U.S. to Germany tumbling at a furious pace, Japanese investors placed orders for 4.24 trillion yen ($41 billion) of debt last week, according to data from the nation’s finance ministry going back to 2005. That’s close to what they bought in the first two months of the year.

The International Olympic Committee remains “absolutely in line” with its Japanese hosts in its commitment to delivering safe Olympic Games in July, the IOC said in a statement Thursday. Without making a direct reference to the global spread of the coronavirus, the organizing body for the games also said it will continue to follow the advice of the World Health Organization.

Follow Bloomberg on LINE messenger for all the business news and analysis you need. Malaysia adjourned former leader Najib Razak’s 1MDB trial over concern his lawyer may have been exposed to the new coronavirus.

The pyramids of Egypt have been on Genelle Edwards’s travel bucket list for years. She started having second thoughts about her two-week trip to Egypt, due to start on March 16, after an outbreak of the new coronavirus on a  cruise ship on the Nile River and the death of a German tourist from Covid-19 at a hospital in a Red Sea resort. “I’m worried about being quarantined and stuck when I’m there,” says the 68-year-old retired business owner from Austin. “But also I’m concerned with my age, as I’m almost at the highest-risk category.” Edwards says she now plans to cancel, a decision that could be costly: She spent $8,500 plus rewards points on the trip and may only be able to rebook the flight. The conundrum—to travel or not—is a common one, as the coronavirus spreads globally: Those with existing reservations face potentially steep losses for canceling, while those contemplating trips must weigh the risk of getting sick or being quarantined against the discount offers from airlines, tour operators, and cruise companies coping with plummeting sales. While trip insurance doesn’t typically cover disruption tied to epidemics or fear of travel, some coronavirus claims are nonetheless being accommodated: German insurer Allianz SE has started covering medical treatment and trip cancellation and interruption for customers who become ill with Covid-19 or who are scheduled to visit regions with major outbreaks, under certain circumstances and for those with applicable benefits. Tourism in Italy has practically ground to a halt after the country issued a  nationwide lockdown on March 9. President Donald Trump’s decision to  restrict travel from Europe to the U.S. starting March 13 adds another layer of complexity for the industry and individuals. For destinations with just a few cases, travelers who cancel can generally expect to lose at least part of the money. TUI AG, a tour operator based in Hanover, Germany, reimburses excursions affected by government-issued travel warnings, but not those canceled because customers are simply wary of traveling. “Fear of infection is not a reason to withdraw from a trip,” says Susanne Stuenckel, a spokeswoman for TUI.  Data: Hayley Berg, economist at Hopper What a typical leisure traveler should expect to pay, based on consumer airfare searches.  The travel industry is starting to loosen some conditions to encourage people to take advantage of deals. German carrier Deutsche Lufthansa AG, which is cutting as many as half of its flights because of the virus, has waived rebooking fees through April. Melia Hotels & Resorts of Spain is offering rebates of up to 45% and free cancellations. “Many hotels are trying to be more flexible, because they want the travelers to come, if not next week, maybe in three months,” says Alexis Waravka, public affairs manager of Hotrec, an association of hotels, restaurants, pubs, and cafes in Europe. Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. is offering guests full credit on their fare even if they opt out as late as 48 hours before embarkation on trips before the end of July. After that, the policy returns to the stricter charges that usually apply for the industry: They’d have to cancel at least 57 days before sailing to get everything but their deposit back. The looser terms may not be enough to offset declining business for cruise operators. Travelers on several ships have been quarantined for days to weeks after confirmed cases of Covid-19 or because of fears of possible infections, highlighting a risk for the global industry’s more than 300 vessels. Most notable was  Princess Cruises Inc.’s Diamond Princess, which saw about 700 people become infected and was forced to dock for weeks off the coast of Japan. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended travelers defer all cruise ship travel worldwide because of a higher risk of person-to-person spread. HolidayPirates Group, which runs travel deal websites in 10 countries, is trying to quell some of the traveler concerns by promoting information on safe destinations, cancellation policies and insurance, and tips on staying healthy. The Berlin-based company, which saw sales slump 30% from late February to early March because of virus-related fears, is expecting the campaign and low-cost deals to bring some business back. “The longer the situation takes, the more travelers will get used to it and the less panic there’ll be,” says Chief Executive Officer David Armstrong. Claire Fletcher, 33, a marketing manager in Durham, N.C., took advantage of a cheap offer in January when she booked a round-trip flight for $349 to San Francisco. The trip to see the city and the redwood forests with two friends in early May is on for now, but Fletcher says she’d be deterred by a large outbreak like the one in Italy or even one that spreads city-wide. She expects she’d be reimbursed for accommodation and car rental if she is forced to cancel the trip. “I’m pregnant and have asthma, so I need to be cautious as even the regular flu could be dangerous,” she says.

Terms of Trade is a daily newsletter that untangles a world threatened by trade wars.  Sign up here.  Welcome to Thursday, Americas. Here’s the latest news and analysis from Bloomberg Economics to help you start the day:

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called on his political rivals to put aside their objections to him and form an emergency government to deal with the coronavirus crisis. Netanyahu made his appeal on Thursday, shortly after announcing more schools would close to try to contain infections. So far, 109 Israelis have tested positive for the virus and none have died. But with tens of thousands of people in quarantine and no certainty over how long the outbreak will last, the government sees a significant drop in economic growth this year.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. In temperate climates, seasonal flu tends to flare in winter and recede as spring arrives. That gave rise to hopes by some that the arrival of warmer weather in the northern hemisphere would keep Covid-19, also transmitted by droplets expelled from the nose and mouth, in check there. The evidence so far suggests the change of seasons has an effect on transmission of the coronavirus -- but a modest one that can’t be relied on to stanch the pandemic.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The European Union’s eastern members ramped up the fight against the coronavirus, with measures ranging from restricting entry to foreigners and shutting schools and shops to banning large public gatherings.

The debt markets for Europe’s riskiest firms ground to a halt on Thursday as the inexorable spread of the coronavirus paralyzed borrowers and lenders alike. Investors are staying on the sidelines as the gap between securities’ buy and sell prices widens. The cost of credit insurance on Europe’s high-yield companies jumped to the highest since 2012.

Fullerton Healthcare Corp. is exploring options including a sale of the company or a spinoff of its digital unit, according to people familiar with the matter. The two new options come on top of plans from a few months ago to conduct a private funding round of about $400 million, said the people, who asked not to be named because the matter is private. Deliberations are ongoing and plans could change, the people said.

Tokyo 2020 is keeping its name but the Summer Olympics and Paralympics have been pushed back by a year. As the deadly coronavirus spreads globally, organizers bowed to the demands of athletes, sports federations and politicians around the world by delaying an event that was due to start July 24. It’s the first time an Olympics has been postponed since the modern games began in the 19th century. July 23, 2021 to Aug. 8, 2021. That would be the first staging of a modern Olympics in an odd-numbered year. The Paralympics would begin Aug. 24, 2021.

Australian stocks staged a record-breaking intraday rebound in the midst of near universal market gloom, a move that bewildered some traders but nonetheless quickly spread to other riskier assets. In one of the wildest sessions ever for Australia’s nearly $1 trillion market, the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index swung from an 8.1% loss to a 4.4% gain -- the biggest intraday move since the gauge was created in 2000. Everything from S&P 500 Index futures to Indian shares and the Chinese yuan soon followed suit, though in some equity markets the rebound wasn’t enough to lift indexes into the green.

New Zealand shares entered bear market territory after U.S. stocks posted their worst drop since 1987. The S&P/NZX 50 Gross Index tumbled as much as 6.9% in early trading and is set to close at least 20% below its Feb. 21 record. U.S. equities slid as investors signaled that actions by the Federal Reserve and President Donald Trump won’t be enough to offset the impact of the coronavirus.

David Rosenberg, who’s long been advising clients to brace for the worst, spent Thursday morning riding out the market mayhem on a treadmill. “I’m at the gym because I have to de-stress,” Rosenberg, founder of Rosenberg Research and Associates Inc. said by phone, panting slightly. “There’s nothing better than doing a five minute plank to get your mind off the market’s troubles.”

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The European Central Bank and financial markets agree: It’s time for German Chancellor Angela Merkel and fellow government leaders to step up now to shield the European economy from the spreading coronavirus.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s administration is prepared to abandon its long-standing balanced-budget policy to help finance measures to contain the fallout of the coronavirus. Given the dimension of the crisis, Merkel and her economic team are now willing to accept deficit spending to help finance containment measures, according to people with direct knowledge of the government’s economic policy. The virus-triggered crisis is one of the “exceptional circumstances” under the constitutional debt brake that allows for additional borrowing, said the people, who requested not to be named because the discussions are not public.

Turkey’s President Recep Tayyip Erdogan convened his cabinet and other high-level officials on Thursday to formulate a plan for dealing with the coronavirus after a first case was confirmed in the country this week. Turkey has already taken some action, including canceling some school events and screening Europe-bound refugees for high fevers. Thousands of refugees are camped out along Turkey’s borders with Greece and Bulgaria.

Twitter Inc. escalated its coronavirus response by mandating that all employees must work from home, having previously only recommended the practice. The San Francisco-based company has more than 35 offices around the world, with its Hong Kong, Japan and South Korea locations already put on mandatory remote work due in part to government restrictions. As it expands the policy to its global workforce, Twitter said it will continue to pay contractors and hourly-wage workers to cover standard working hours during the disruption.

Follow Bloomberg on LINE messenger for all the business news and analysis you need. A new multifamily office with about $300 million in assets under advisory has established itself in Singapore, aiming to attract wealthy clients and private bankers from across the region.

Formula One confirmed it will cancel this year’s season-opening Australian Grand Prix event in Melbourne, adding to the ranks of major global sports disrupted by the coronavirus outbreak. The decision on the race in Australia’s second-largest city was taken after a member of the McLaren Racing team tested positive for coronavirus, Liberty Media Corp.-owned Formula One, the FIA governing body and Australian Grand Prix Corp. said Friday in a statement.





















































































Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter African nations from Rwanda to Mauritania have reported their first cases of coronavirus, demonstrating the spread of the pandemic is accelerating across the world’s second-most populated continent.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Madrid (AP) -- The Chinese soccer team that was originally stuck in Spain because of the coronavirus outbreak is going back home to try to avoid its rapid spread in Europe.

Latin America is ratcheting up its response to the coronavirus pandemic, with governments across the region announcing a series of new measures. Presidents in Venezuela, Colombia, Chile and Uruguay went on national television Friday to report the partial closure of borders, quarantine measures, and the banning of large public events.

Production at a Renault-Nissan plant in Barcelona was halted on Friday due to disruptions in its supply chain, a Nissan Motor Co. spokeswoman said Saturday. “Production stopped in our Barcelona plant on Friday due to local restrictions on movement, which have impacted our supply chain,” Azusa Momose said in an email. “For this reason, we have notified our employees that Monday will be a non-production day (down-day).”

Walmart Inc., the biggest U.S. retailer, will cut its store operating hours starting Sunday to give its workers time to restock shelves as the coronavirus outbreak intensifies. The pandemic is prompting Americans to buy more groceries and other daily necessities including cleaning products, often emptying shelves in anticipation of an extended period of so-called social distancing or self-isolation. The number of confirmed Covid-19 cases globally has risen to almost 152,000, with deaths nearing 5,700.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The Massachusetts Gaming Commission voted unanimously Saturday to temporarily suspend operations at the state’s three casino properties, according to a statement.

Piecing together the various Department of Health and Human Services messages about long-term care is challenging for some nursing homes as they deal with a major health danger to their residents in the new coronavirus. Many long-term care facilities started putting precautionary measures into action weeks ago, as national nursing home groups like the American Health Care Association began circulating best practices.

One of Australia’s most elite private schools, Geelong Grammar School, will end the first term early and close all its campuses on Wednesday as a precaution against the rapidly spreading coronavirus. The school council, executive and leadership teams had decided to bring term 1 to an early close as a pre-emptive measure, Principal Rebecca Cody said in a letter to families reported by various media. Geelong Grammar is in Victoria state.

Lululemon Athletica Inc. has canceled yoga classes and is limiting store hours at its North American locations due to the coronavirus. North American outlets will be open from 12 p.m. to 6 p.m. daily beginning Monday, the Vancouver-based yoga-wear maker said in a statement. Store-based events and gatherings, which include yoga classes and running clubs, have been canceled, effective immediately.

Fewer than one-fifth of the people who tested positive for the coronavirus on the Diamond Princess cruise ship appeared to show no symptoms, according to an estimate published Friday. Of the 634 confirmed Covid-19 cases aboard the ship off of the coast of Japan last month, 328 showed no symptoms when they were first tested, the study said. When the researchers adjusted the result in a model to account for people who likely developed symptoms later, they came up with an estimate of 18% of asymptomatic cases.

New Zealand introduced one of the most severe measures by a nation to control the spread of the coronavirus, announcing that almost every individual who enters New Zealand, including citizens and residents, will be required to self-isolate for 14 days. People coming in from the Pacific Islands -- unless they show Covid-19 symptoms -- will be excluded from the restrictions that will be imposed from midnight Sunday, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said Saturday at a press conference in Auckland. Cruise ships will not be allowed into New Zealand until at least June 30.

Kansai Electric Power Co. selected Vice President Takashi Morimoto as the new president on Saturday, replacing Shigeki Iwane, after getting a report from a committee investigating the utility’s payoff scandal. A total of 75 officials from Kansai Electric took cash and presents worth about 360 million yen ($3.4 million) from Eiji Moriyama, a former deputy mayor of the town of Takahama, and companies associated with him, according to the committee’s report released on Saturday.

HNA Group Co. held a meeting with some creditor banks, including China’s biggest state-owned lenders, to discuss its liquidity difficulties and debt issues, the Chinese conglomerate said. The March 11 discussions with the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd., China Construction Bank Corp., Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., Bank of China Ltd., Bank of Communications Co., Shanghai Pudong Development Bank Co. were “thorough, candid,” according to a statement on HNA’s Wechat account on Friday. The parties provided updates and spoke about existing issues, it said, without providing details.

Spain is declaring a state of emergency effective immediately for 15 days, significantly limiting mobility in the country as the government seeks to stop the expansion of the novel coronavirus, Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said in televised speech Saturday. The Spanish government will take full control of administration nationwide, Sanchez said after a seven-hour cabinet meeting.

Want the lowdown on European markets? In your inbox before the open, every day. Sign up here. Ferrari NV has temporarily halted the production of its sports cars in Italy because of the spread of the coronavirus.

In the past two days alone, two African-American NBA basketball players have tested positive for coronavirus, and several cases have turned up among native populations in both African and Caribbean countries, puncturing any theory that black people are immune to the disease. Yet the memes persist.  So NONE of these Corona Virus cases have been black people?! LEMME FOUND OUT WE IMMUNE. It’s the least God can do after slavery. Statements like this one are surely made in jest. But there are at least some instances of actual scientific or medical arguments, which outlets including Reuters and Politifact have already debunked. While some may argue that the jokes, at least, are harmless, U.S. history evinces how unsubstantiated claims about race-based resilience to disease have led to devastating outcomes, particularly for African Americans. The impacts of such beliefs still affect how people of color are medically treated — or not — today.  I’ve heard a few people claim that black people are somehow immune to #coronavirus. I haven’t seen any scientific evidence of that. Don’t be careless pic.twitter.com/Z9mNKDWPoG The 18th-century yellow fever outbreak in the Americas is instructive here. In the 1740s, yellow fever had overtaken coastal port cities such as Charleston, South Carolina, driving people into delirium, endless vomiting, hemorrhaging, and eventually death. The physician John Lining recorded his observations about the disease in Charleston after inspecting slave ships and their cargo —including captive Africans — finding that it was almost exclusively white people who were succumbing to the disease. These observations helped reinforce already-stirring beliefs that Africans had some kind of supernatural inoculation to some of the deadliest diseases floating along the American coast. Lining’s medical briefs became the reference manuals for another physician, Dr. Benjamin Rush, when in 1793 a yellow fever outbreak took hold of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, which at the time was the nation’s capitol. Close to 20,000 people — half of the population — fled Philly that year, while many African Americans actually stayed in the city at the request of Rush, who wanted to train them to nurse, care-take, and dig graves for the thousands of people dying of yellow fever. Rush was operating on the belief that black people were immune to the disease, and black Philadelphians believed him when he told them that they were. Rush not only was an outspoken abolitionist, but also friend of the black clergymen Absalom Jones and Richard Allen, founders of the African Methodist Episcopal church, and two of the most influential African Americans of the time. Jones and Allen helped convince black people to stay behind to assist Rush, telling their congregations that it was their Christian duty to help care for the lives of white Philadelphians. But Rush was wrong. Many of the African Americans in his medical camp contracted the disease. Hundreds of them died. Allen became afflicted and almost died himself. While Rush was a highly respected doctor — the American Psychiatric Association would later title him the “father of American psychiatry” — he was relying on faulty claims about race and health conditions that proved fatally wrong. The Philadelphia massacre became an abject lesson in what happens when race gets bandied about amidst the rages of a major health maelstrom. As Dr. Rana Hogarth wrote in her book Medicalizing Blackness about the 1793 yellow fever outbreak in Philadelphia: “The idea of innate black immunity placed an undue burden on the city’s black inhabitants. For those black people who did stay behind to help, it meant buying into a belief that at its core defined their bodies as being distinctive and unequal to whites.” This is why Hogarth bristles a little every time she sees memes fly by on Twitter or Facebook pointing out fewer documented cases of coronavirus in Africa, or fewer deaths of African Americans, as indications that black people are somehow impervious to the disease. Such statements, whether made literally or comically, are rooted in racist beliefs that hearken back to the 18th century yellow fever disaster that almost decimated black Philadelphia. “I can understand the idea of saying black people as a group have suffered so much, particularly if we look at medical history, that we're going to flip the script,” said Hogarth. “But let's just pump the brakes on this because there were very real moments in history where African Americans were believed to be immune or were peculiar in some way, and it wasn't seen as a bonus. It was actually seen as, ‘OK, now you have to stay behind and put your lives at risk because we just assume you won't get this,’ and that's the part where I kind of pause and say, OK, this is not good.” Medical theories about black immunity persisted after the Philadelphia yellow fever outbreak, refortifying political and economic justifications for keeping Africans enslaved. The thought was that black people are best suited for chattel labor because of their ability to fight off attacks on their health, even though the Philadelphia case disproved that. Some medical authorities attempted seemingly savvier takes on black immunity, adding that this superpower was linked not just to race, but to proximity to certain geographic locations and climates, mainly in the tropics. Those takes ended up as part of the Confederate South’s arguments for preserving its plantation and slave-based economy. The climate-based argument was that certain deadly diseases couldn’t survive in warmer temperatures, which happens to be the same argument that a cruise ship line made recently about coronavirus, to convince people to keep booking trips with them. As the Miami New Times reported on March 10, Norwegian Cruises ordered sales workers to give customers scripted lines such as: “The coronavirus can only survive in cold temperatures, so the Caribbean is a fantastic choice for your next cruise," and, "Scientists and medical professionals have confirmed that the warm weather of the spring will be the end of the coronavirus.” There is no scientific evidence that coronavirus is vulnerable at any temperature, just like the claims of earlier centuries that diseases like yellow fever can’t survive in tropical conditions or in tropical people were either overblown or flat-out false. The only thing that inoculated a person from yellow fever back then, says Hogarth, was actually contracting the disease and being lucky enough to survive. Since yellow fever originated in mosquitos native to West Africa, the black-immunity truthers of the time didn’t take into account how many Africans may have died from the disease in their native lands. Today, almost all cases of yellow fever (90%) occur in the tropical areas of Africa and South America. Beyond climate and geography, ideas about race and health powers continued to flourish throughout the 18th century among white medical professionals, taking as gospel declarations that black skin was thicker than white skin, which emboldened doctors to experiment on black bodies. One major medical idea percolating back then was that black people feel less pain and suffering than other races — an idea that became the underpinning for the surgical experimentations that Dr. James Marion Sims performed on black women in his quest to perfect procedures for fixing incontinence and reproductive problems. Today he is considered the “father of gynecology,” though monuments of his likeness have recently been taken down in recent years. For Hogarth, the way race was treated in health matters back then informs how we talk about both today, and not often in ways that illuminate the actual impacts of particular diseases on black people. “So for example, you know when people say, ‘Oh the black women's maternal mortality rate is appalling — a much higher rate than for whites,’? It's good that we recognize that, but can we not make it about there being something wrong with black women?” said Hogarth. “Can we say that maybe black women are more likely to be discriminated against, to not be taken seriously, to have their complaints ignored than white women?” Race, or rather racism, and health have also spelled doom for Chinese Americans. Unlike black people, they have not been deemed uniquely indestructible, but rather uniquely susceptible and contagious when it comes to disease. In the early 1900s, Chinatown was burned down in Honolulu out of a belief that the neighborhood was spreading the disease. Conservatives (and USA Today) have been eager to label coronavirus the “Wuhan virus” or the “China virus,” further stigmatizing this ethnic population. The Philadelphia Inquirer reports that Chinese residents and students were getting racially harassed in the city well before the first case even turned up there. “Personally I find the xenophobia and anti-Asian responses very troubling because the quick move from epidemic control to racist or otherwise discriminatory practices of public health has a long history and we seem to be on the precipice of writing a new chapter in that history,” said Alexandre White, a sociology professor at Johns Hopkins University also affiliated with the university’s department of the history of medicine. “That should be a concern not just for people of Asian descent, but any group that has been marginalized or oppressed for any reason. We can today see a lot of commonalities around racist discourse around Covid-19 and broader ideologies of racism throughout history.” Much of that racist discourse was incubated during that 18th century medical era response to the yellow fever outbreak. Race was used to formulate policies around who should and shouldn’t be exposed to a deadly disease, and then race was weaponized in the disease’s aftermath to determine who was responsible for it.   “In Philadelphia, [they] did what [they were] supposed to do, and look at what they get in return,” said Hogarth. “Their work is part of this long history of exasperation among African Americans who are saying that we are tired of trying to be part of this society even when we are excluded deliberately, and what we get is a minimizing of our suffering, and then blamed when things don’t go well.” It’s clearly not a laughing matter.

Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said there is no need to declare a state of emergency over the coronavirus at this point, while pledging to support an economy reeling from the spread of the disease. Abe told reporters on Saturday that the infection rate in the country remains lower than other major nations, while warning Japan cannot let down its guard over the virus.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Airlines are halting flights, and other business are grinding to a stop. People around the the world face more draconian restrictions on gatherings and travel.

Baghdad (AP) -- A barrage of rockets hit a base housing U.S. and other coalition troops north of Baghdad on Saturday, Iraqi security officials said, just days after a similar attack killed three servicemen, including two Americans. The U.S.-led coalition said at least 25 107mm rockets struck Camp Taji just before 11 a.m. Some struck the area where coalition forces are based, while others fell on air defense units, the Iraqi military statement said.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. JPMorgan Chase & Co. told employees worldwide that they will start working from home on a rotating basis, as the biggest U.S. bank intensifies its response to the coronavirus pandemic.

Parents, get ready to hear a lot of singing. Walt Disney Co. is making its blockbuster movie “Frozen 2” available on its streaming service Disney+ three months ahead of schedule as the coronavirus outbreak forces employees around the world to work from home.

Ronna Romney McDaniel, chairwoman of the Republican National Committee, has been tested for the Covid-19 virus after experiencing fever and flu-like symptoms. “She went to her local hospital in Michigan for treatment,” RNC communications director Michael Ahrens said in a statement posted on Twitter.

First it was sports arenas and concert halls. Now retailers and gyms are closing their doors to protect employees and customers from the spread of Covid-19. Peloton closed its public studios “out of an abundance of caution,” while only odd-numbered SoulCycle bikes will be available to book come Monday.

Airlines in the U.S. and Europe cut flights, idled planes and drafted plans to eliminate jobs, while seeking government support to weather the roughest downturn in the industry’s history caused by the coronavirus. American Airlines Group Inc., Delta Air Lines Inc., United Airlines Holdings Inc. and Southwest Airlines Co. said they’re discussing potential aid from the government, without providing details.

The White House said Saturday it planned to perform temperature checks on any individuals in close contact with President Donald Trump or Vice President Mike Pence. The announcement, made “out of an abundance of caution,” came as Pence prepared to hold a press conference after a meeting of the White House coronavirus task force.

Italian unions and business representatives signed an accord to protect workers nationwide from the spread of the coronavirus in a bid to keep at least some production up and running. “It is a primary objective to combine the continuation of production activities with the guarantee of conditions of health and safety in the workplace and working methods,” according to a decree announcing the measures.

PG&E Corp. said it’s open to a proposal that would let California regulators take greater control of the company if it gets into trouble again, largely conceding to one of Governor Gavin Newsom’s demands for the utility to exit bankruptcy. PG&E said it agrees with the establishment of a six-step enforcement process proposed by California Public Utilities Commission President Marybel Batjer. The process, which could ultimately lead to the state revoking the company’s operating license, would be triggered by specific events, including operational and safety breaches, according to a filing Friday.

Canadians are being urged to avoid non-essential travel out of the country until further notice as other nations rush to close their borders amid the coronavirus outbreak. “To limit the spread of Covid-19, many countries have put in place travel or border restrictions and other measures such as movement restrictions and quarantines,” Global Affairs Canada posted on its travel advisory website. “Airlines have canceled flights. New restrictions may be imposed with little warning. Your travel plans may be severely disrupted and you may be forced to remain outside of Canada longer than expected.”

President Donald Trump has tested negative for the novel coronavirus, according to a memorandum released by the president’s physician. “One week after having dinner with the Brazilian delegation in Mar-a-Lago, the President remains symptom-free,” Dr. Sean Conley said in the memo.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. France closed restaurants, cafés and non-essential stores and Spain imposed a national lockdown as European governments from Scandinavia to the Balkans increasingly curtailed public life to fight the coronavirus.

As major events were getting canceled across the U.S., and New York was banning gatherings of 500 or more on March 12, the Swiss luxury watchmaker Tag Heuer hosted a final shindig in honor of its new Connected Watch. At the Caldwell Factory in New York’s trendy West Chelsea district, guests played with the new smart timepiece, which comes in four variations to retail from $1,800 to a steep $2,350—making it one of the most expensive, serially produced, connected watches on the market.

Sweden’s foreign ministry said non-essential travel should be avoided because of the vast spread of the novel coronavirus and the “rapidly changing and uncertain situation.” The recommendation will remain in place until April 14, the ministry said in a statement on its website. It came as several European countries decided to tighten its borders to fight the contagion. Sweden reported a total of 924 cases of coronavirus on Saturday, up from 755 a day earlier.

Official U.S. indicators for employment, inflation and gross domestic product might seem badly out-of-date as the rapidly spreading coronavirus outbreak wreaks havoc on the economy. Key data points after often a month behind. To give a more timely snapshot, below are five high-frequency indicators tracking how consumers are reacting to the crisis.

Credit Suisse Group AG is considering a plan to create a 20-billion franc ($21 billion) loan program to aid small and medium-sized Swiss businesses affected by the coronavirus, according to the Swiss newspaper Handelszeitung. Other large lenders -- like Raiffeisen Bank International AG and Zuercher Kantonalbank -- are also considering the proposal, which was initiated by Credit Suisse’s new chief executive Thomas Gottstein, according to the report, which cited several unnamed sources.

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and President Donald Trump haven’t spoken in months, but the California Democrat seized the initiative to strike a deal with the White House on a broad measure aimed at helping Americans cope with the spiraling effects of the coronavirus outbreak. After Trump didn’t deliver on a promised announcement of a “major” economic stimulus package, Pelosi and House Democrats on Wednesday put out their own plan to ease some of the economic impact on workers and families. That began a series of negotiations between Pelosi and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin over the course of three days and more than two dozen phone calls.

The U.S. Department of Defense suspended all domestic travel for personnel and their families during the coronavirus outbreak, according to a statement. The new restrictions apply to all DoD military and civilian personnel and their families assigned to DoD installations, facilities and surrounding areas within the U.S. and its territories, the department said in the statement. It applies to permanent change of station and temporary duty.

Austria is setting aside 4 billion euros ($4.4 billion) in liquidity and subsidies to support the economy against the impact of the coronavirus, Chancellor Sebastian Kurz told journalists on Saturday. The measures will offer liquidity by way of loans and loan guarantees as well as tax deferrals, a new model for labor subsidies for companies that have to reduce working hours, and aid for one-person and family-owned enterprises, and the tourism and cultural sectors, Kurz said.

Global central banks already struggling to spur inflation amid the spreading coronavirus are facing a fresh challenge -- the oil crash. The price war between Saudi Arabia and Russia that has given crude its worst week since 2008 will put heavy downward pressure on inflation just as the coronavirus outbreak hits consumer spending. It’s undoing the years of effort that monetary authorities have put in, along with trillions of dollars of stimulus, trying to hit their price-stability targets.

President Donald Trump said he took a test to determine whether he has coronavirus, after learning that he’d recently come in contact with people who were infected or are concerned they may have the virus. At a White House news conference on Saturday, Trump said he doesn’t have a fever and took the test in response to repeated media inquiries.

Justin Trudeau had 24 hours to transform his governing Liberals from progressive champions to crisis managers. Canada’s parliament kicked off the week with legislation to ban conversion therapy, a controversial technique used to “turn” LGBTQ people straight. It ended Friday with a coordinated effort to prevent the nation’s economy from tumbling into a recession due to the global coronavirus pandemic.

Iran summoned the Swiss ambassador in Tehran on Saturday after U.S. President Donald Trump accused an Iranian-backed militia group of an attack that killed two U.S. service members in Iraq. The Swiss envoy Markus Leitner, who represents U.S. interests in Iran, was warned against “any uncalculated U.S. measure and its consequences,” Iran’s foreign ministry said in a statement on its official Telegram channel. The ministry dismissed Trump’s accusation as “baseless and dangerous.”

Namibia said a couple visiting from Spain tested positive for the coronavirus, the first cases of the disease in the southwest African nation. “The two have since been quarantined and are being monitored and treated,” Health Minister Kalumbi Shangula told reporters in the capital, Windhoek Saturday.

Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron will hold a meeting to discuss the situation in Syria via a teleconference on March 17 as they take precautions because of the coronavirus, according to Turkey’s state run Anadolu Agency. The initial plan was for Merkel and Macron to visit Turkey to discuss Syria and the refugee crisis, but the decision to meet remotely comes after Turkey confirmed three more coronavirus cases, taking its total to five. The country also announced it was suspending flights to several European countries to attempt to curb the outbreak.

Tehran, Iran (AP) -- Iran said Saturday the coronavirus outbreak has killed another 97 people, pushing the death toll in the country to 611, as war-ravaged Syria announced a number of strict measures despite the government saying it has no confirmed cases. Iran is suffering from the worst outbreak in the Middle East, with 12,729 cases and even senior officials testing positive. It is a close ally of the Syrian government in the civil war, with military advisers as well as Shiite pilgrims frequently traveling between the two countries.

Australia’s sunny skies and windswept coasts, which have drawn billions of dollars to the nation’s renewables sector, are starting to become a hard sell. Overseas renewables developers and investors are shying away in the face of a creaking power grid and unclear policy, exacerbated by Prime Minister Scott Morrison defending fossil fuels and refusing to tighten emission targets even amid deadly wildfires and drought. London-based construction group John Laing Group Plc this month said it would exit the market, highlighting a trend that last year saw new investment in the sector fall for the first time in half a decade.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The House passed an economic relief plan backed by President Donald Trump to deal with the spreading coronavirus as part of what lead negotiator Speaker Nancy Pelosi said will be a continuing effort to help the American people.

Romanian lawmakers approved a new government led by Prime Minister Ludovic Orban, putting aside political differences to give him the power to confront the spreading coronavirus outbreak. The confirmation of Orban’s cabinet in a confidence vote on Saturday ends more than a month of political wrangling that began when opposition forces shot down an identical lineup last month.

Morgan Stanley Capital Partners agreed to sell veterinary clinic chain Pathway Vet Alliance LLC to TSG Consumer Partners in a deal worth at least $2 billion, including debt, Dow Jones reported citing people familiar with the matter. The private-equity arm of Morgan Stanley Investment Management bought a stake in Pathway Vet in 2016 and expanded its operations through acquisitions. Further details of the deal weren’t available and it’s unclear how much debt TSG plans to use to finance the transaction, according to Dow Jones.

Instagram plans to sell advertisements in IGTV, its home for longer videos, a bid to compete with YouTube for a larger share of the booming market for online video. Instagram started reaching out to its top video creators on Friday, asking them to partner on ad tests. Those in the program will receive a 55% share of all advertising in IGTV, the same rate as YouTube, according to people familiar with the matter. The company will start testing the ads this spring.

It’s truly the end of the old Microsoft Corp.Late on Friday, co-founder and original Chief Executive Officer Bill Gates, the man most closely identified with the world’s largest software maker, said he will leave the company’s board to devote more time to his charitable foundation, which is is playing a key role in global health initiatives and expanding into new areas like climate change. Gates will remain as a technical adviser to the company, helping to guide CEO Satya Nadella and senior leadership on issues like the future of productivity software, health-care technology and artificial intelligence. “I think it just says, ‘We’ve turned the page, we have completed our transition,’” said Merv Adrian, a vice president at research firm Gartner Inc., who has followed Microsoft closely for decades. “This feels like a graceful transition over several years. Now they feel that their work is done, and it’s time to go on.”

Controversial Chinese cryptocurrency entrepreneur Justin Sun, who paid $4.57 million for a charity dinner with Warren Buffett, is facing a revolt over a niche company he recently purchased. In the past few weeks, the 29-year-old Sun has been called “a dictator” and worse on Twitter and in more than 1,500 comments. A boycott of the blogging company Sun acquired is in full swing, and a number of its employees have resigned. Two of the world’s largest crypto exchanges are distancing themselves from Sun. That has the crypto sphere debating the growing role of exchanges, and whether some types of digital ledgers called blockchains are secure enough.

A federal judge in Washington put off much of the Trump administration’s effort to make it harder for poor Americans to get food assistance, in a blistering ruling that not only criticized the White House but chided other courts for having too often “rolled over” to the president’s demands. In an 84-page ruling, Chief U.S. District Judge Beryl Howell issued a nationwide injunction that blocks two of the three changes the White House had made to the nation’s Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP.

Vietnam is suspending tourist visas for travelers who have been in the United Kingdom, Northern Ireland and Schengen countries 14 days prior to their planned arrival starting Sunday at noon because of the novel coronavirus outbreak, according to a statement on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ website. The ban also includes those who “come from” these regions, the statement said, without further explanation.

Israeli’s Benjamin Netanyahu ordered the closing of non-essential businesses and advised workers to stay away from offices, the latest steps the prime minister has taken to contain the coronavirus. To whittle down the size of crowds in public spaces and slow down the infection’s spread, Israel will close cafes, theaters and restaurants, Netanyahu said on Saturday.

Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.’s diagnostic test to detect nucleic acid from SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes the novel coronavirus, has been authorized under an emergency-use order by the Food and Drug Administration, according to a statement from the company. “The authorization of our diagnostic test for COVID-19 will help to protect patients and enable medical staff to respond swiftly to treat those who are ill, and prevent the spread of infection,” Thermo Fisher Scientific Chief Executive Officer Marc Casper said in the release.

Election officials in Georgia will postpone the Democratic primary scheduled for March 24 until May 19 due to worries about the coronavirus pandemic, Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger said Saturday. “Events are moving rapidly and my highest priority is protecting the health of our poll workers, their families, and the community at large,” said Raffensperger, a Republican.

The U.S. Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services has instructed nursing homes to significantly restrict visitors and limit communal activities to guard against possible coronavirus spread, according to a statement from the federal agency. The new measures are intended to protect senior citizens who are at highest risk for complications from the virus, the CMS said. Restrictions apply to all visitors except in certain cases of compassionate care as well as to non-essential workers at nursing homes. All group activities and community dining will also be canceled, according to the statement.

The economic fallout from the coronavirus could be more serious than the damage done by the 2008 global financial crisis for Singapore, according to Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong. “We can’t tell when the pandemic will end, but it will likely last at least this year, and quite possibly longer,” Lee said in a Facebook post. “The economic hit will likely be more serious than the Global Financial Crisis, and longer-lasting too, even beyond the end of the pandemic.”

After a harrowing week that featured trading halts and epic declines in some of the major markets, investors are looking to indulge in food, wine and video games over the weekend while keeping tabs on the virus. Panic over the impact of the spreading coronavirus and an oil-price war took investors on a wild ride. Wall Street had its wildest week since 1929, benchmark indexes sank across regions, and trading suspensions were triggered from Seoul to Bangkok and Mumbai on Friday.

The FDA is encouraging licensed pharmacists and physicians to create batches of hand sanitizer to cut back on spot shortages that, thanks to the new coronavirus, have pushed consumers to make their own.  People are encouraged to wash their hands for at least 20 seconds, or use hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol in it to help fight the virus, but stores around the country have run out of hand sanitizer and the agency is worried home-made concoctions aren’t as safe to use.

Want to receive this post in your inbox every day? Sign up for the Balance of Power newsletter, and follow Bloomberg Politics on Twitter and Facebook for more. At a time of peak instability, this week has been especially rocky.

New York hospitals are pushing forward with emergency plans to make rooms and resources available for a surge in coronavirus cases that’s expected to place historic pressure on the region’s health-care system. New York Presbyterian’s 13 hospital network and New York City’s public hospitals announced they would cease elective surgeries, a move likely to be followed by others in the area. Tents were erected in the parking lots of medical facilities across the city to triage lower-risk patients, and laboratories and hospitals were finally ramping up their ability to test people with symptoms.

The day after Italy suffered the biggest-ever jump in bond yields, its central bank chief came out fighting. Ignazio Visco, governor of the Bank of Italy since 2011 and a former chief economist at the OECD, had one mission: to repair the damage caused by his colleague, European Central Bank President Christine Lagarde, when she suggested it wasn’t her institution’s job to narrow spreads.

New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson has promised to cover the staff salaries at the Smoothie King Center for 30 days amid a worsening coronavirus epidemic. Williamson is pledging to help Smoothie King Center staff who are still “recovering from long term challenges” created by Hurricane Katrina, and now facing the economic impact of the virus fallout, according an Instagram post.

President Donald Trump said the U.S. will broaden its temporary travel restrictions to include the U.K. and Ireland, two countries left out of an earlier order aimed at slowing the spread of the coronavirus. Trump confirmed reports that the restrictions are pending during a Saturday news conference at the White House that followed a meeting of his coronavirus task force.

Bond investors will be on high alert for more action from policy makers next week, after emergency rate cuts and promises of cash following some of the most turbulent market moves in history. The European Central Bank, Bank of England and Norges Bank have all pledged to do more to bolster confidence after the rapid spread of the coronavirus has led to lockdowns across countries and meltdowns across markets.

China’s President Xi Jinping sent his condolences to other nations for the first time since the global outbreak of the coronavirus, offering them to South Korea, Iran and Italy, the government said in three separate statements. He later extended the condolences to the European Commission and European Council. China is willing to actively provide help for Europe to conquer the virus, Xi said.

The U.S. is “fairly certain” that there are coronavirus cases in North Korea, despite denials by Pyongyang, because of a lack of military activity, according to a senior American army commander. North Korea’s military has “fundamentally been on lockdown” for almost a month and didn’t fly a single aircraft for 24 days before resuming its routine training, Commander of the U.S. Forces Korea Robert Abrams told reporters in a teleconference briefing on Friday.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Nizana Brautmann found out her 6-year-old son had been exposed to coronavirus via a note on the locked door of his Berlin daycare center on Monday morning. It told parents to take their kids home and wait.

President Donald Trump said he has no plans to demote Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell but asserted -- as he has in the past -- that he has the right to. Trump spoke at a press conference after a meeting of his coronavirus task force at the White House, revisiting his regular complaints about the U.S. central bank.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Ray Dalio’s macro fund dropped about 20% this year as the billionaire fund manager found himself on the wrong side of a market rout caused by the escalating coronavirus pandemic.

The oil-price war between Saudi Arabia and Russia is set to unleash the biggest flood of crude ever seen, perhaps more than the world can even store. As producers ramp up shipments in a battle for dominance of global markets, and the coronavirus crushes demand, more than a billion extra barrels could flow into storage tanks. That could strain the available space and send oil prices crashing further, with brutal consequences for the petroleum industry and producing nations.

Want the lowdown on European markets? In your inbox before the open, every day. Sign up here. It took Friday the 13th for European stock markets’ sharpest sell-off in history to hit the brakes.

Global central banks stepped up their crisis-fighting this week in a campaign to keep markets functioning and economies growing as the coronavirus looks increasingly likely to tip the world into its first recession since the financial crisis.Among the tools deployed: Interest-rate cuts, asset purchases, currency interventions and liquidity injections. Markets reacted just as aggressively. Trading volatility spiked to levels not seen since the financial crisis as the S&P 500 Index’s historic bull run came to an end and signs of illiquidity emerged across debt markets. Even the $17 trillion U.S. government-bond market wasn’t immune, with the gap between prices bid and sellers’ offers widening sharply. Meanwhile, the dollar staged its biggest jump in 12 years, climbing to a three-year high, as investors piled into haven assets.With more action likely next week, here’s a rundown of what happened this week:

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Three of the biggest Arab economies pledged almost $47 billion in stimulus to limit the economic damage of the coronavirus outbreak, joining a global effort meant to soothe markets and salvage growth.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Apple Inc. said Saturday it’s closing its hundreds of retail stores outside of Greater China until March 27 and is moving to remote work in order to help reduce the spread of coronavirus.

Christine Lagarde’s verbal faux pas on Thursday puts the European Central Bank chief in a distinguished club of global monetary officials whose words have inadvertently roiled financial markets. The president’s comment that it’s not her institution’s job to close bond spreads seemed to undermine previous pledges to defend the integrity of the euro area, and sparked a record jump in Italian yields. That remark might yet earn a label as the gravest of such errors, though events surrounding the global panic could equally make it a mere footnote of the current crisis.

Warner Bros. said the filming of its “The Batman” feature production will be put on hiatus for two weeks starting Saturday. The entertainment industry -- like many other sectors -- has been grappling with the outbreak of coronavirus, particularly with many of its productions filmed on locations around the world.

Some Americans have found a measure of reassurance in these coronavirus days by stocking up on hand sanitizer and toilet paper. For others, peace comes with the purchase of a $4,995 emergency go-bag, outfitted with “Bond-like gadgets” and custom monogramming. Or a $149.95 “virus-eliminating” personal air purifier that’s worn as a necklace. Or a $99.95 Sanitized Sleeper’s Safe Haven, a bedtime cocoon made from “patented antimicrobial fabric that kills nearly 100% of bacteria, fungi and viruses.” These items are part of a cornucopia of survival products that float at the rarefied end of the burgeoning $4.5 trillion wellness market. As the pandemic spreads, they’re sold out or on back order or otherwise in short supply. Just like toilet paper. “Our warehouse shelves are almost wiped out,” says Ryan Kuhlman, co-founder of Preppi, maker of high-end disaster kits including the go-bag, which comes with four hard-to-obtain N95 respirator masks. Preppi’s sales so far this month have increased 5,000% compared with February. “Having the right tools and supplies can provide incredible relief to anxieties.” Sure, the markets are haywire and every hour or so brings an announcement of another institution closing or public event postponed or canceled. But for makers of products that cater to one-percenters nervous about exposure to a deadly illness, inventory can’t be replenished fast enough. Hammacher Schlemmer’s Sanitized Sleeper’s Safe Haven Source: Hammacher Schlemmer & Co. The granddaddy of pricey-gadget peddlers is Hammacher Schlemmer & Co. The retailer stocks a range of defenses such as the “Virus, Mold, And Germ Destroying Air And Surface Sanitizer,” which for $399.95 promises to zap nasty microbes from your living room using technology similar to what NASA employs to purify its space shuttles. In the days before coronavirus, the item was billed mainly as a mold fighter. And though it was always meant to fight viruses, the company added the v-word to it and some other products to grab the attention of agitated shoppers, not to mention internet-search algorithms. “We strengthened the title to aid consumers in their search,” said Ann Marie Resnick, the company’s vice president of marketing. It’s working. Sales of some Hammacher personal-care items are up as much as 500%, according to Resnick. “It just went boom,” she said. “Everyone needs an air purifier for the home. You’ll need more than one.” Coronavirus-related spending is most prevalent among higher-income consumers, according to Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., and those folks need everyday items as well. Touchland hand sanitizer Source: Touchland If Purell is too gloopy for well-manicured hands, there’s Touchland, a spray-on sanitizer ($12 for 1.3 ounces) whose packaging looks modeled on a mini-iPhone. It contains moisturizers, essential oils and something called Glycereth-26, which the company says is “an awesome humectant.” Bonus: It smells like watermelon or lavender or other fun stuff, not ethyl alcohol. There’s just one problem: It’s currently sold out. “It’s been a little bit crazy,” said Andrea Lisbona, Touchland’s 34-year-old founder and chief executive. Lisbona said she’d just returned to the U.S. from the company’s factory in Mexico, which is ramping up production to get Touchland into the unsanitized hands of the 25,000 customers on its waiting list. “Until three weeks ago, this product was essentially a fashion statement,” said Alexander Chernev, a marketing professor at Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of Management. “Now, things have changed.” Turns out, if you want something that’s both fancy and functional, you might have to wait -- no matter what tax bracket you’re in.

Deposits at Yes Bank Ltd. continued to decline this year as worried customers withdrew money from the distressed lender, which was seized earlier this month in the biggest bank rescue in the country’s history. Deposits totaled 1.37 trillion rupees as of March 5 -- when Indian authorities took control -- down 17% from the start of the year, Yes Bank said in a statement Saturday. That followed a 26% year-on-year slide in the three months through December.

No March Madness. No NBA. No NHL. No Masters. But there’s booze. “I just need a drink,” said Anthony Venezia, cradling two bottles of wine, a Tuscan and a Cabernet Sauvignon. “This is to relax. I’m not worried they’re going to run out of wine, but I can’t even get pasta or bread.”

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. A U.S. disease surveillance network that monitors doctors’ offices and hospitals has picked up a rise in people with a fever and cough, but who don’t test positive for influenza.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Spain will impose a nationwide lockdown for two weeks as part of a state of emergency the government is to declare Saturday as coronavirus cases are soaring, El Mundo reported.

Iran’s Imam Reza shrine, a magnet attracting millions of Muslim pilgrims in the holy city of Mashhad every year, will be closed during the country’s New Year Holidays from March 20 over coronavirus concerns, state TV reported. The announcement comes as “the situation in Mashhad has grown more acute” and the city “is going through its most decisive week” in battle against the Covid-19 disease, semi-official ISNA reported, citing Mayor Mohammad Reza Kalaei.

Dublin barman David Leavy should be bracing for one of his busiest days of the year. Instead, he’s wondering if anyone will show up. Leavy works in McDaid’s, a storied city-center pub and a magnet for the Dubliners and tourists who flood into the Irish capital every year for the March 17 St. Patrick’s Day parade. Except this year, the celebrations have been canceled as authorities seek to slow the spread of the coronavirus.

Fear of the coronavirus is leading nations, from the U.S. to much of Europe and Latin America, to close up and shield their citizens from the spreading outbreak.That meant shutting borders, airports, seaports and, in France, its iconic cafes and restaurants. Spain and Libya declared emergencies. Italy had 175 new deaths, pushing its total to 1,441.U.S. President Donald Trump tested negative for the coronavirus, as he extended travel bans to the U.K. and Ireland. New York City reported its first fatality. Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here.

Ian Burdette stared at his computer screens on Thursday afternoon in New York and could hardly believe his eyes. Everywhere that the head of term-rates trading at Academy Securities Inc. looked, there were massive anomalies and signs of unprecedented stresses in markets. Ultra Long Term U.S. Treasury Bond Futures, which moved about 1.3 points per day on average in January, were down more than seven points on the day and off 36 points from Monday’s high. Italian sovereign debt had simply imploded. An index of costs to insure corporate debt with credit-default swaps surged the most since Lehman Brothers collapsed, and the CBOE Volatility Index measuring costs to hedge against losses in U.S. stocks was the highest since November 2008.

Want to receive a daily news briefing, including this weekend edition, in your inbox every day? Sign up here  It was the fastest-ever descent from an all-time high: the end of the bull market seemed to come out of nowhere. For some, the speed of the meltdown was a cause for concern—good luck if you tried to access your day trading account. As central banks and governments stumble into action, John Authers writes in Bloomberg Opinion that history suggests the worst is yet to come.

Saudi Arabia’s central bank unveiled a 50-billion riyal ($13.3 billion) package to support private businesses as the economy grapples with the impact of coronavirus.

Bamboo rat meat, a once profitable commodity China’s poor traded for quick returns, now risks pushing those farmers back into poverty. Many local governments had encouraged impoverished citizens to breed the animal, offering financial incentives as part of poverty-relief measures. But Beijing has now clamped down on trading wild animals due to the coronavirus, potentially destroying the livelihoods of hundreds of thousands of farmers.









































































































































































































No one is panic-buying motorcycles. Well, probably not. But it’s safe to say there is no longer a bull market for a chrome-covered splurge.  Tomorrow, into the midst of the pandemic, Indian motorcycles will launch one of its most ambitious (and expensive) ad campaigns to date, splashing “mid-seven figures” across a wide range of media, including a national television buy (the NBA and the NHL playoffs were a big part of the package, though the spots will transfer elsewhere). At its heart, the new Indian push is an old-school, Coke-Pepsi taste-test, encouraging motorcyclists to compare its bikes to those of Harley-Davidson. In addition to the ads, Indian, a Polaris brand, has stocked at least one $21,700 Harley at almost all of its 200 North American dealerships for the moto-curious to compare and contrast.  "It's as big of a bet as we've placed previously," Indian marketing chief Reid Wilson told me. Every consumer-facing executive faces a binary market dynamic: either draw new, first-time customers or steal someone else’s—what car and motorcycle makers call “conquesting.” Indian has always been tuned for the latter, since Polaris bought the long-defunct brand and relaunched it in 2014. Its first product wasn’t a small, starter bike aimed at riding rookies, but rather a big, piggy cruiser with a Harley-esque price tag ($19,000). "From a brand standpoint, there’s a definite slice of the pie that wants a different choice,” Wilson says. “They don’t want to be confined to an image that was already there.” In other words, Harley’s outsized lore, its brand swagger, its appropriation as a cultural identity by roughnecks and retired dentists alike, can be a liability as much as an asset. Indian's oppositional stance has worked out nicely. It now reckons that it has rounded up about 10% of the U.S. market for big, cruiser bikes and 20% of the mid-sized bike business. As for the new ad blitz, Indian was working on it long before the world started falling apart, but the timing is propitious. Harley is skidding badly. At the end of January, CEO Matt Levatich stepped down shortly after posting the company’s fifth consecutive year of declining U.S. sales. Harley has made decent headway luring green riders, but it’s having a hard time keeping them on the road. Meanwhile, it’s losing some of its best customers to age and, increasingly, Indian. It’s safe to say the motorcycle market is in for a rough ride as Covid-19 casts a shadow over the busiest time of year for sales and rallies. In the U.S., motorcycling still hasn’t recovered from the last recession. New bike registrations dropped to 253,000 last year, less than half of their 2006 peak. Meanwhile, Harley’s U.S. market share has slipped from 53.3% when Indian revved up in 2014, to 49.1% last year.  It's a scared and scary new world out there and customers will be scarce for awhile. Savvy companies will be working hard to keep the ones they have, while stealing the ones they don't. Self-contain, swipe, repeat.

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and others close to him are being tested for the coronavirus. The tests, described as “routine,” are being conducted on the orders of an official in his office responsible for security, the Prime Minister’s office said in a text message. None of those tested showed prior symptoms. The message didn’t identify the other people being tested.

Athens, Greece (AP) -- Greece is transferring 450 migrants recently detained for trying to reach the island of Lesbos illegally to a facility near Athens, authorities said Sunday. A ship with the migrants landed at a port near Athens and the migrants will be transferred to a facility just north of the capital pending deportation, an official at the Ministry of Migration policy told The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because he wasn't authorized to speak on the matter. The transfer to the facility was still underway Sunday morning.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Kenya halted the entry of foreigners from countries that have confirmed coronavirus cases and suspended schools in a bid to reduce the risk of contagion within the East African country.

Saudi authorities have detained 298 government employees, including military officers, and will indict them on crimes, including abuse of power, bribery, money laundering and corruption, according to an anti-corruption body called Nazaha. The total sum of misused funds amounted to 379 million riyals ($101 million), Nazaha said in a series of tweets on Sunday. Those detained include retired defense ministry officers, Interior Ministry officials and two judges, it added.

Beijing will quarantine all travelers from overseas, including Chinese citizens, at designated locations for 14 days as the government shifts its focus to limiting imported coronavirus cases. From midnight on Monday, all new arrivals will be kept under observation for two weeks, Beijing’s municipal government said in a statement late Sunday afternoon. That means even those who live in the city will not be allowed to return home except under “special circumstances,” it said. They will also have to cover the cost of their quarantines.

Jeff Bezos, Bill Gates and Peter Thiel beware. There could be a shakeup on the horizon among the billionaire-backed companies trying to replicate the energy source of the sun and stars. That’s the assessment of Jonathan Carling, the chief executive officer of Tokamak Energy Ltd., the U.K. company backed by Swiss billionaire Hans-Peter Wild which is promising investors it will connect a fusion reactor to the power grid in a decade. He sees the market thinning as competing designs are likely to prove technically unfeasible.

Spain’s King Felipe VI renounced any future personal inheritance from his father and stripped him of his retirement allowance amid reports that the former monarch held millions of euros in offshore accounts. King Felipe decided “to relinquish any inheritance from Juan Carlos he might be entitled to, as well as any asset, investment or financial structure whose origins, characteristics or purpose may not be in accordance with the law,” Felipe said in a statement published online by the palace.

This late-night talk show is about to get even later. ABC is delaying “Jimmy Kimmel Live!” by 30 minutes so “Nightline” can air an hour earlier for four nights starting Tuesday. The network made the swap to help more people “stay informed and safe during this uncertain time,” ABC said in a release. The news program is set to air at 11:35 p.m. in most markets. “Nightline” had its roots in another news story that riveted the nation, the 1979 Iranian hostage crisis. It went on to be hosted by correspondent Ted Koppel from 1980 to his retirement in 2005.  With the focus on social distancing, talk show host Jimmy Kimmel is tweeting about yet another bump -- #Elbumps. #elbump https://t.co/tWzjn8vUsG Kimmel’s show is now set to air at 12:05 a.m. starting Tuesday night. His guest lineup, subject to change, includes Chris Pratt from Disney’s “Onward” movie that topped the box office for a second weekend, Harrison Ford, Wiz Khalifa, Amy Poehler and Ben Affleck, among others.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. French voters are braving the country’s virtual lockdown to cast votes in municipal elections Sunday in Europe’s biggest public ballot since it became the epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak.

With major theater chains voluntarily limiting ticket sales or closing because of the coronavirus outbreak, no one was expecting a big weekend for movies. And they got what they expected -- with revenue plunging to two-decade lows. Theaters in the U.S. and Canada brought in just under $50 million over the weekend, researcher Comscore Inc. said Monday. That’s a 61% decline from a year earlier and the smallest weekend tally since at least 1998.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Airlines in Europe and the U.S. cut flights, idled planes and drafted plans to eliminate jobs, while seeking government support to weather the most brutal downturn in the industry’s history caused by the coronavirus pandemic.

The coronavirus pandemic has given local governments and food banks a reprieve from a Trump administration rule that would have wiped out food stamps for 700,000 poor Americans. Before a judge issued an injunction on March 13, the administration didn’t heed calls for a delay in the change to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program. It was to go into effect April 1, the first of three revisions that could ultimately remove almost 4 million people from food-assistance rolls.

The Federal Reserve and five counterparts united to ensure that dollars keep flowing around the world after the coronavirus emergency sparked a rush for greenbacks. In coordinated statements on Sunday, the Fed, Bank of Japan, European Central Bank, Swiss National Bank, Bank of Canada and Bank of England said they would use their swap lines to support the international supply of the world’s reserve currency. They added a weekly offering of dollars over a longer maturity, and reduced the cost of the facility.

Venezuela’s President Nicolas Maduro ordered a quarantine in the capital and six states starting Monday, strengthening measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus in the country. “Either we quarantine or the pandemic could tragically and painfully take down Venezuela,” Maduro said on state television. With 7 new cases on Sunday, for a total of 17, there are no deaths confirmed yet.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Indonesia ordered schools to close across much of the archipelago as authorities scrambled to contain a sudden spike in coronavirus cases which included a minister who tested positive for the disease.

Data on China’s industrial output, investment and retail sales due Monday are forecast to show an across-the-board contraction for the first time on record, evidence of the extent to which the coronavirus has ravaged the economy. The data is released on a combined basis to account for the normal seasonal swings around the Lunar New Year holiday.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said new travel restrictions are possible -- including shutting the country’s borders -- as Canada ramps up its response to the coronavirus pandemic.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. It’s already clear Friday’s rally was not the turning point some emerging-market investors hoped for. Nor will the U.S. Federal Reserve’s emergency rate cut on Sunday night be enough to reverse what’s the fastest collapse in risk assets in more than a generation.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. South Africa declared a national state of disaster over the coronavirus outbreak and announced the continent’s most drastic measures yet to curb its spread. Stocks slumped to a six-year low, bonds fell and the rand weakened.

Victoria, Australia’s second-most populous state, on Monday declared a four-week state of emergency due to the coronavirus, allowing the enforcement of 14-day isolation requirements for all travelers entering the nation and the cancellation of mass gatherings of more than 500 people as announced by Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Sunday. The measures are designed to “flatten the curve” of coronavirus cases and give the state’s health system the best chance of managing the virus, Premier Daniel Andrews told reporters in Melbourne.

Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro applauded a series of pro-government, anti-Congress protests around the country on Sunday, three days after suggesting they would be canceled due the risk of coronavirus spread. Bolsonaro joined a demonstration in Brasilia. In a live broadcast on social media, he distributed more than a dozen fist bumps to supporters outside of the presidential palace, protected behind two parallel waist-high grids.

All arrivals to Singapore from the Asean group of nations as well as Japan, Switzerland and U.K. will have to self-isolate for two weeks in the city-state’s latest measure to tackle the coronavirus pandemic. The only exception will be to Singapore’s land and sea border crossings with Malaysia due to the special relationship between the two nations, Minister for National Development Lawrence Wong said at a press briefing Sunday. About 300,000 people travel across the land checkpoints each day, he said.

Chicago’s O’Hare International Airport was among those overwhelmed over the weekend with passengers, including many returning from Europe, who faced new screening measures hastily announced last week by the White Hosue. The throngs of anxious travelers were a stark contrast to the increasingly loud calls for people to practice “social distancing” as a way to get ahead of the spread of the coronavirus and buy time for fragile health care systems.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Denmark will compensate as much as 75% of the wages for some private sector employees who face losing their jobs as the economy slows down due to the spread of the coronavirus.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. has confirmed to staff its first two cases of coronavirus as the Wall Street bank steps up plans to split up teams and allow more employees to work from home.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The Swiss government may provide additional economic support on top of its $10 billion Covid-19 aid package if the crisis worsens, Switzerland’s President Simonetta Sommaruga said in an interview with SonntagsZeitung.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Danske Bank A/S will stop charging negative interest rates to thousands of small business clients as part of a palette of measures intended to stem the fallout of the coronavirus through the economy.

Venezuela will temporarily suspend flights from Panama and the Dominican Republic, essentially cutting off the nation from most of the world, Information Minister Jorge Rodriguez said Saturday. Flights from Europe and neighboring Colombia were already suspended earlier this week, narrowing the country’s remaining air connections to about a handful, including Turkey and Cuba.

Washington (AP) -- President Donald Trump said Sunday he is considering a full pardon for former national security adviser Michael Flynn, who had pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI about dealings with Russia’s ambassador before Trump took office. Flynn attempted to withdraw the guilty plea in January, saying federal prosecutors had acted in “bad faith” and broke their end of the bargain when they sought prison time for him.

TechnipFMC is suspending its plan to split into two entities as the current environment is not conducive due to volatile stock markets and the sharp fall in commodity prices, the company said in a statement. The company said it remains committed to the transaction and will ensure that it is ready for the spin-off when the markets are sufficiently recovered.

Airbnb Inc. has rolled out a full refund policy for reservations across the globe in light of the coronavirus pandemic. The San Francisco-based company said it will extend its virus-related cancellation policy to every country in the world, allowing hosts and guests to cancel reservations with no charge or penalty.

The Federal Reserve may take steps to ease strains in the commercial paper market, a source of short-term funds for companies that has frozen up amid the global market rout, according to Bank of America Corp. strategists. The central bank could announce facilities to buy commercial paper Sunday evening, strategists Mark Cabana and Olivia Lima said in a note dated March 13. Without Fed intervention, spiraling costs of the short-term IOUs could pressure bank balance sheets and cause a run on money-market funds that hold the debt, they said.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Colorado Governor Jared Polis ordered the closing of all ski areas, popular resorts located in a region that accounts for 39 of the state’s 131 confirmed cases of the new coronavirus, according to official data.

Turkey will temporarily shut down bars and clubs as a citizen who recently visited Saudi Arabia tested positive for coronavirus, bringing the total number of cases in the country to six. The closure, which also includes all pavilions and discotheques, will begin Monday, the Interior Ministry said in a statement.

Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Zimbabwean Finance Minister Mthuli Ncube restricted trading in three companies’ stocks to try and halt a rout of the nation’s currency.

National Football League players approved a proposed labor contract that adds a 17th game to the regular season and increases the number of teams in the playoffs, the player’s union said on Sunday. The vote was 1,019 to 959. A simple majority was needed to approve the collective bargaining agreement, which drew criticism from a number of the league’s high-profile players, many of whom opposed it on health and safety concerns. The agreement supersedes the final year of the current contract, the 2020 season, and then goes for another 10 years.

Australia’s central bank said it’s prepared to purchase government bonds and will announce further policy steps Thursday to support the economy, just hours after the U.S. and New Zealand slashed interest rates. “The Reserve Bank stands ready to purchase Australian government bonds in the secondary market to support the smooth functioning of that market, which is a key pricing benchmark for the Australian financial system,” Governor Philip Lowe said in a two-paragraph statement Monday.

Bernie Sanders held his first virtual campaign rally Monday night, seeking to replicate the in-person experiences that draw thousands of his supporters to events around the country. As political candidates adapt to campaigning during the coronavirus outbreak, Sanders was joined by surrogates and musical acts for a virtual rally that was livestreamed across digital platforms including Twitter and YouTube.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Ghana is closing its borders to travelers from countries with more than 200 cases of the coronavirus as the West African nation seeks to prevent contagion of the disease.

The coronavirus has thrown Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu an unexpected lifeline to keep afloat a career threatened by corruption indictments and stalemated elections. At least for now. The Justice Ministry on Sunday delayed Netanyahu’s trial -- scheduled to start on Tuesday -- until May, as the Israeli premier declared an emergency, made nightly broadcasts to the people and implemented tough policies aimed at containment.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Australia’s Prime Minister Scott Morrison said all people arriving from overseas will have to self isolate for 14 days, as his government stepped up efforts to slow the spread of the coronavirus.

Ankara, Turkey (AP) -- Turkish and Russian troops began joint patrols Sunday on a key highway in northwestern Syria, Turkey’s Defense Ministry said, while both the Russian government and Syrian opposition activists said the patrols were shortened because of protests. Patrols on the highway known as the M4, which runs east-west through Idlib province, are part of a cease-fire agreement between Turkey and Russia signed earlier this month. The cease-fire ended an escalation in fighting that saw the Turkish military in rare direct conflict with Syrian government troops.

The White House issued new guidance to federal agencies and departments on Saturday, telling them to limit work travel to “mission critical” activities amid the coronavirus outbreak. The new guidance recommends that federal workers only travel if absolutely necessary, and encourages agencies to conduct meetings by phone or video conference, according to two people familiar with the move who requested anonymity because they were discussing an internal document. The memo, issued by the Office of Management and Budget, asked departments and agencies to determine if trips can be postponed or done virtually.

Jerusalem (AP) -- Israeli opposition leader Benny Gantz will be given the first opportunity to form a new government after an inconclusive national election this month, the country’s president said Sunday, raising questions about Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s political future. The decision by President Reuven Rivlin was announced by his office after he consulted with leaders of all of the parties elected to parliament. He will formally designate Gantz with the task on Monday and give him a month to cobble together a governing coalition.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. France will gradually reduce domestic transport links by air, rail and bus as the nation takes increasingly drastic measures to limit public life to fight the coronavirus epidemic.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. LVMH, the world’s largest luxury goods company and owner of the Louis Vuitton brand, is joining the fight to help combat the coronavirus in France by making large quantities of hand sanitizer.

New Zealand’s central bank slashed its benchmark interest rate by 75 basis points as strict border controls to curb the coronavirus look set to tip the economy into recession. In an emergency move early Monday in Wellington, the Reserve Bank cut its official cash rate to 0.25% from 1% and said it will remain at that level for at least the next 12 months. Should further stimulus be required, the RBNZ said it would turn to quantitative easing for the first time in New Zealand history by undertaking large-scale purchases of government bonds.

A fire on the slopes of Cape Town’s Table Mountain prompted evacuations in some of the city’s most expensive residential areas on Sunday when a strong wind fanned the flames and prevented the use of helicopters to battle the blaze. Residents in the suburbs of Higgovale, and Clifton, where a property on Nettleton Road was recently listed at more than $10 million, fled as the fire approached their houses. The blaze was contained on Monday morning as the wind dropped, local broadcaster eNCA reported.

Most equity markets in the Middle East fell on Sunday, despite efforts by central banks across the region to protect economies from shocks related to the coronavirus and plunging oil prices. Dubai’s main index fell 3.4% by the close and Abu Dhabi’s dropped 1.9%, even after the United Arab Emirates announced 100 billion dirhams ($27.2 billion) of monetary stimulus over the weekend. Egyptian stocks had their worst day since 2012, weakening more than 9%. The gauge in Saudi Arabia also traded lower.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Australia and South Korea on Sunday called for meetings of leaders and finance chiefs from the world’s top industrial and emerging nations as the coronavirus outbreak triggers panic on global markets.

Steven Mnuchin said he doesn’t expect the coronavirus pandemic to tip the U.S. economy into recession, even though growth will inevitably slow as many businesses shut down operations for a time. The U.S. Treasury Secretary also said Sunday he wants to reinstate certain powers used during the 2008 financial crisis to help buttress the economy from the economic shock now on the way.

The U.S. Treasury will be able to support smaller businesses impacted by the coronavirus through an economic relief plan that the House passed late Friday, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said in a statement. “To protect businesses concerned about cash flow, the Treasury will use its regulatory authority to advance funds to employers in a number of ways,” he said, adding employers will be able to use cash deposited with the IRS to pay sick-leave wages.

Want to receive this post in your inbox every morning? Sign up here. In a shock move, the Federal Reserve slashed U.S. interest rates to near zero thanks to the coronavirus’s far-reaching implications for global growth. Investors are bracing for yet another week of market volatility. And concerns are emerging that the Group of Seven won’t be able to match the crisis response of the past. Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about today.

T-Mobile US Inc. will temporarily close all its stores located inside shopping malls from Sunday -- revising an earlier statement that it will start the closures on Monday amid the novel coronavirus spread, according to a statement. The U.S. wireless carrier has not made a decision on when to re-open the stores. The move comes in response to guidance around social distancing, it said. The policy affects all T-Mobile and Metro by T-Mobile stores, including dealerships, that are located inside a shopping mall, the company said.

For an industry that was already struggling to survive slumping stock prices and a virtual shutdown of capital markets, it’s hard to overstate the impact of the coronavirus-related market meltdown. Between the close of trading on Feb. 20 and Thursday, when many global stock markets were hit by once-in-a-generation declines, the BI Global Cannabis Competitive Peers index slumped 43%, bringing its 12-month decline to about 81%.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Austria tightened restrictions on public life further on Sunday, banning public gatherings of more than five people, closing restaurants from Tuesday and calling on people to self-isolate as coronavirus cases in the country continued to climb.

Deutsche Bank AG will operate in split teams globally from Monday as a way to curb the spread of the coronavirus. Employees should also observe the separation in their free time, the lender said in a memo to staff.

Joe Biden is adopting a version of tuition-free college in an effort to reach out to Bernie Sanders’s young supporters as the former vice president attempts to unite the two wings of the Democratic Party around him, his campaign said.Biden now supports making public college and university tuition free for all students whose families earn less than $125,000 a year, his campaign said Sunday. Biden plans to discuss the new position during Sunday night’s one-on-one debate against Sanders. It’s the second policy concession his campaign has made to progressive opponents this week, following his backing of Senator Elizabeth Warren’s plan to fix the bankruptcy system. Biden and Warren battled over bankruptcy legislation more than a decade ago. But Biden’s campaign said he now supports her plan, which would make it easier for individuals to get relief through bankruptcy and would eliminate rules that make it nearly impossible to discharge student loan debt in bankruptcy.

The Hong Kong Monetary Authority cut bank capital buffers to free up HK$500 billion ($64 billion) in cash to stoke lending in the struggling Asian financial hub.  The city’s de-facto central bank on Monday lowered its countercyclical capital buffer imposed on banks to 1% from 2%. That came after it also reduced its base rate by 64 basis points to 0.86%, hours after the U.S. Federal Reserve cut its by 100 basis points, in the second reduction this month by both monetary authorities.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Pakistan’s central bank said it’s ready to take action to support financial markets in the face of the coronavirus pandemic, which has led to a sell-off in the country’s bonds.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Argentina is mulling a lockdown to fend off the coronavirus before fall arrives in the southern hemisphere and the weather gets colder, President Alberto Fernandez said.

Hours before the city of Hoboken imposed limits on restaurant operations and shut down bars to combat the spread of the new coronavirus, hundreds of people made one last defiant pub crawl. In many parts of the U.S., residents began practicing the social distancing that public-health officials say will help slow the pace of the pandemic, which has killed at least 59 Americans and more than 5,700 people worldwide. But that point was getting limited traction Saturday night outside The Pig and Parrot, a Key West-themed bar across the street from the Hoboken train station.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Europeans faced increasingly draconian restrictions on public life, as governments tightened border controls to check the spread of the coronavirus and moved to limit damage to the continent’s fragile economies.

Metro Manila, a region of 12 million people, entered a month-long lockdown on Sunday as Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte considers a plan to impose a curfew on the area to try to contain the coronavirus outbreak. Hours after Metropolitan Manila Development Authority General Manager Jose Arturo Garcia Jr. said Saturday that a 8 p.m. to 5 a.m. curfew will be implemented from Sunday until April 14, Duterte spokesman Salvador Panelo said the president had yet to approve the measure. The city will go into lockdown during this period, with schools and government offices largely shut, as the number of local Covid-19 cases climbed this week.

British food retailers have written a joint letter to their customers asking them to “buy responsibly” in the wake of shoppers stockpiling over fears about coronavirus. Twelve of Britain’s biggest grocers published the appeal in advertisements in national newspapers on Sunday and will again on Monday. Under the title “Working to Feed the Nation,” they reassured shoppers about steps being taken to ensure adequate supplies in stores and asked them to be considerate: “We understand your concerns, but buying more than is needed can sometimes mean that others will be left without. There is enough for everyone if we all work together.”

Gold extended losses after its worst week in almost four decades, with investors “selling whatever they can” as the widening economic impact of the coronavirus spurred panic across markets. The metal tumbled below $1,500 an ounce before paring declines as market sentiment soured even after further emergency moves by the Federal Reserve. U.S. equities slid in a sign investors have lost confidence in easing policy as way to combat the economic effects of the spread of the coronavirus. Bullion was pummeled as investors sold the metal to raise cash and cover losses in other markets.

Alphabet Inc.’s Google will launch a website on Monday focused on providing up-to-date information about coronavirus education and prevention. The site is a separate project from the testing and triage website being built by Google sister company Verily, which will also go live Monday but will only provide services for California’s Bay Area. Google announced the timing of the site in a blog post Sunday.

Following is the FOMC statement released today by the Federal Reserve in Washington: The coronavirus outbreak has harmed communities and disrupted economic activity in many countries, including the United States. Global financial conditions have also been significantly affected. Available economic data show that the U.S. economy came into this challenging period on a strong footing. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in January indicates that the labor market remained strong through February and economic activity rose at a moderate rate. Job gains have been solid, on average, in recent months, and the unemployment rate has remained low. Although household spending rose at a moderate pace, business fixed investment and exports remained weak. More recently, the energy sector has come under stress. On a 12‑month basis, overall inflation and inflation for items other than food and energy are running below 2 percent. Market-based measures of inflation compensation have declined; survey-based measures of longer-term inflation expectations are little changed.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. If traders hoped Friday’s turnaround would prove more than a moment of relief for the world’s shell-shocked markets, an emergency interest-rate cut by the Federal Reserve and coordinated steps by other central banks failed to bring any lasting sense of stability.

Americans must be ready to take more drastic steps to slow the march of the coronavirus pandemic in the U.S., Dr. Anthony Fauci said as he made the rounds of major Sunday talk shows. “Americans should be prepared that they are going to have to hunker down significantly more than we as a country are doing,” Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”

The Philippine peso is starting to lose its immunity from the coronavirus fallout. The currency was the best-performing Southeast Asian currency last month on the perception the economy wasn’t as exposed to supply chain and trade pressures as some of its peers. The growth rate remained one of the highest in the region on the back of robust government spending and the recent oil price collapse was a boon given the country’s net importer status.

Israel’s Justice Ministry has delayed the start of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s corruption trial by two months as the government takes increasingly stricter measures to halt the spread of the coronavirus. Netanyahu is now scheduled to appear in court on May 24 to begin his defense against corruption indictments, according to a Justice Ministry statement on Sunday. His trial was scheduled to start on Tuesday.

An investigation into Coffee Day Enterprises Ltd., initiated by its board after the death of founder V.G. Siddhartha, is likely to conclude that at least 20 billion rupees ($270 million) is missing from its accounts, according to people familiar with the matter.The months-long probe following the suicide of Siddhartha in July examined the financial transactions of India’s largest coffee chain and its dealings with dozens of private companies owned by the entrepreneur. The draft report, running more than a hundred pages, points to billions of rupees that have gone missing, said the people, asking not to be identified because the details aren’t public. It also highlights hundreds of transactions between the founder’s listed and personal businesses that were not conducted at arm’s length, they said.Though the report is in its final stages, the precise details could change before its release, expected as early as this week, the people said. The missing funds could total more than 25 billion rupees, one person said. “The investigation report is still a work in progress, and not finalized,” a spokesman for the company said. “The board of directors and the company are unaware of its content at this point of time. Hence it would be premature to speculate on the investigation findings.”

President Donald Trump said Americans should buy fewer groceries as retailers struggle to keep food and other products in stock because of concern over the spread of coronavirus. “There’s no need for anybody in the country to hoard essential food supplies,” Trump told reporters Sunday at the White House. “You don’t have to buy the quantities because it’s hard to refill the stores.”

New York City and Los Angeles are taking major steps to curb social interaction to fight the spread of the coronavirus. The two biggest U.S. cities will limit restaurants to take out and delivery orders. New York City will also shut down nightclubs, movie theaters, small theater houses, concert venues and allow bars to only offer take out and deliveries -- starting Tuesday at 9 a.m., local time. Los Angeles will close bars and nightclubs, as well as movie theaters, performance venues and gyms by the end of Sunday.

Hospitals across the U.S. are preparing for a surge in patients seeking help as testing for the novel coronavirus becomes more prevalent, revealing the extent of Covid-19’s spread. One leading doctor called for a war-like footing to ensure resources are properly assigned. “We need to think about this in almost like a war-like stance,” Peter Slavin, president of Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”

A ban on short selling and mandatory delivery-based trading are among the proposals being considered by the Securities and Exchange Board of India to reduce market volatility, Business Standard reports, citing people it didn’t identify. The finance ministry last week asked the market regulator to take action to curb the stock market’s fall, the newspaper said, citing sources.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Britain’s government is expected to accelerate efforts to tackle the coronavirus after confirmed cases in the country surged much faster than expected, The Times of London reported.

Expanding testing for the Covid-19 virus in the U.S. will result in a “spike in the curve” over the next week as more cases are uncovered, a top White House aide said. “For those of you who watched China, and China reporting, remember when they changed their definition and all of a sudden there was a blip in their curve? We are going to see that,” Dr Deborah Birx, virus response coordinator, said at a briefing by the White House coronavirus task force.

It took one week after the first U.S. case of Covid-19 with no overseas connection for Starbucks Corp. to temporarily ban customers from bringing in reusable coffee mugs. Judith Enck, a former regional administrator for the Environmental Protection Agency, was disappointed. Public health comes first, of course, but as the founder of the grassroots Beyond Plastics project, Enck had her doubts that returning to disposable cups would make anyone safer. Currency, for instance, is a notorious germ-carrier. “Will Starbucks now stop accepting cash?” she says. These are nervous times for activists working to wean the world off plastics. Until the novel coronavirus started its spread across the globe, 2020 appeared to be a year when meaningful plastic-use restrictions would finally take hold. A growing list of consumer companies—including Coca-Cola Co., which produces about 117 billion plastic bottles each year—had set targets to reduce their reliance on plastic packaging. France prohibited single-use plastic plates, cups, and cutlery starting January 1, and England will enact restrictions on plastic straws and stirrers starting in April. On March 1, New York joined a number of other cities around the world in banning the distribution of plastic shopping bags by retailers.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. New coronavirus tests from lab-testing giants Laboratory Corp. of America Holdings and Quest Diagnostics Inc. will cost roughly $50 to $100, according to George Liakeas, a physician in Manhattan, and Janice Johnston, a physician in Phoenix, each of whom were told the price tags in their dealings with the companies.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The U.K. and Switzerland are effectively not trying to combat the coronavirus and cases there are likely to surge in the coming weeks, a Singapore minister said.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. President Donald Trump said Americans should avoid gathering in groups of more than 10 people and should stop eating out at restaurants and bars. The San Francisco Bay Area went further, requiring people to stay home except for essential needs.

Spain may requisition private health clinics and make military hospitals available to the public health system to bolster its fight against the novel coronavirus. All medical equipment such as surgical masks, gloves and protective glasses held in stock by companies or individuals must be handed over in the next 48 hours, Health Minister Salvador Illa said in a press conference Sunday, in which the possibility of requisitions was announced. Medical students in their final year will be hired to help hospitals deal with the number of patients suffering from the disease, Illa said.

The college dropout who built a BBQ chicken restaurant into one of the Philippines’ biggest chains is at it again. This time, Edgar “Injap” Sia, chairman of Injap Investments Inc. is barreling into the Philippines’ $15 billion retail market, a mature industry dominated by the empires of the country’s richest families. To help fund his charge, Sia plans to raise 1.6 billion pesos ($31 million) through his MerryMart Consumer Corp. initial public offering as early as this month.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The global aviation regulator’s decision to toughen a new carbon market for airlines will cut supply of emission credits to offset greenhouse gases as the coronavirus slams ticket sales.

SpaceX aborted a planned launch of a Falcon 9 rocket Sunday after an abort command occurred at the point where the engines were to ignite. The Falcon 9 was to carry 60 Starlink satellites into space. The launch would have been the sixth this year for Elon Musk’s rocket company, and the fifth return of the reusable booster into flight.

Thailand said it will classify all travelers into three groups under intensified surveillance for the new coronavirus as officials try to prevent a wider outbreak in the tourism-reliant nation. People coming from China, Hong Kong, Macau, South Korea, Iran and Italy will be subject to mandatory 14-day self-quarantine, the Tourism Authority of Thailand said in a statement. They must apply for visas and present health forms at check-in certifying they are at no risk of developing the disease known as Covid-19, or they will be denied boarding.

At a community hospital in the heart of New Jersey’s coronavirus outbreak, time can be counted in spare ventilators. Six patients are on the devices right now at Holy Name Medical Center in Teaneck. Twenty-one more are at the ready.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Italy’s government approved a 25 billion-euro ($28 billion) package to support its strained health system while helping businesses and families counter the economic impact of Europe’s worst coronavirus outbreak.

Las Vegas (AP) -- Cirque du Soleil, creator of many of the most popular shows in Las Vegas, said Saturday that it is temporarily suspending its productions in the city as well as around the world because of the new coronavirus outbreak. In a statement, the company said it made the decision based on public health authorities calling for people to limit their social interactions to stop the spread of the virus.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Scandinavian airline SAS AB will temporarily lay off up to 10,000 employees, or 90% of its workforce, in response to the fallout from the coronavirus and related measures from authorities that have restricted international air travel.

Citigroup Inc. is forecasting a 10% boost in new clients and assets at its retail wealth unit in Asia, betting that a digital push will help it grow this year even as the coronavirus upends businesses across the region. The bank plans to expand its customer base across 12 markets, underpinned by online growth, said Fabio Fontainha, Citi’s head of retail banking for Asia Pacific. Fontainha’s unit serves clients with investable assets of $100,000 to $10 million.

The U.K. has advised its citizens against all but essential travel to Spain amid the novel coronavirus outbreak, according to a statement from the Foreign and Commonwealth Office. Airports remain open, and flights continue to operate at reduced volumes, the statement said, urging British citizens to contact airlines for updated information.

Saudi Aramco is slashing planned spending this year in the first sign that plunging demand and the oil-price war the kingdom unleashed are hitting home. Capital expenditure will be between $25 billion and $30 billion in 2020 and spending plans for next year and beyond are being reviewed, Aramco said. The oil giant is lowering that range from the planned $35 billion to $40 billion announced in its IPO prospectus, and compares with $32.8 billion in 2019.

Japan’s Jera Co., one of the world’s top buyers of liquefied natural gas, expects “breakup” clauses to become standard in supply contracts, making it easier for buyers and sellers to get out of long-term relationships. A global glut and price slump is challenging traditional supply deals that can run for upwards of 20 years. There used to be no need for termination clauses as buyers and sellers could eventually reconcile disagreements, said Sunao Nakamura, the company’s managing executive officer, who likened the contracts to marriages. But amid unprecedented market changes, parties now need an easier way out when things don’t work as expected, he said.

The U.K.’s National Health Service will this year begin providing for free a drug that could eradicate HIV infections within 10 years, the Sunday Times reported. People in higher-risk groups, such as gay men and sex workers, will be given pre-exposure prophylaxis, an antiretroviral drug, with the aim of eliminating new HIV infections, the newspaper said.

In the most extreme effort yet to slow the march of coronavirus in the U.S., the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended that events of 50 people or more not be held for about two months. For the next eight weeks, organizers should cancel or postpone in-person events of that size throughout the U.S., the agency said on its website Sunday. When feasible, organizers could modify events to be virtual.

Michael Burry vowed to stick with his long-term stock investments even as markets tumble on the coronavirus. The money manager, who made his name betting against the securities that triggered the global financial crisis, has been using the rout to add to holdings in a handful of smaller Japanese companies. He’s still excited about the investments because he believes the country is on the cusp of change.

President Donald Trump said a House-passed virus relief bill should be altered in the Senate to allow expanded sick leave for workers at large corporations, a move that would threaten to delay final action on the measure. Trump said the Senate may act to make the legislation passed overwhelmingly by the House “even better,” although a change would require both chambers to act before Congress can send the bill to his desk. While the Senate is in Washington this week, the House is on a scheduled week-long break.

Want the lowdown on what's moving European markets in your inbox every morning? Sign up here. Good morning. The U.S. and Europe have locked down many non-essential services, the Fed cut rates and Saudi Aramco has reined in spending. Here’s what’s moving markets.

A rapidly spreading global pandemic didn’t stop Parisians from crowding public parks and pathways on the first, warm sunny weekend of the year — and then posting the evidence on Twitter and Instagram. The French government was watching. “We’ve also seen people getting together in parks, in bars that haven’t respected the order to close, as if somehow life hadn’t changed,” French President Emmanuel Macron said in a televised address Monday evening, when he announced a countrywide lockdown on top of the government’s earlier efforts to close restaurants and cafes. “It’s not just you that you aren’t protecting — recent developments have shown that no one is invulnerable, not even the youngest of us.” The government is far from alone in expressing concern, especially after France recorded 900 new cases of the Covid-19 virus on Sunday and 400 hospitalizations. French Twitter users shared many images of busy public spaces yesterday using the hashtag #irresponsables to shame people who had left their homes to mingle with others in close quarters. Overnight, the images became a focus of public fear that France, like many countries, is mentally unprepared for what might be about to hit it.    Buttes Chaumont cet après-midi !Irresponsabilité en commun#CoronavirusFrance #CORONAVIRUSENFRANCE #PARIS #COVIDー19 #Irresponsables #RESTEZCHEZVOUS pic.twitter.com/EdG43v7uZJ This carefree behavior might seem thoughtless, but to be fair to Sunday’s park-goers, the French public has been receiving messages from officialdom that are not entirely clear. France held its first round of countrywide municipal elections on Sunday, despite objections from medical officials — including the head of a Parisian hospital group. In his latest address, Macron postponed the second round of voting, scheduled for March 22. Polling stations relied on disinfected pens, hand sanitizer and a carefully maintained distance between voters for the first round of elections — a less dramatic change from the usual routine than one might expect. Turnout was indeed markedly lower than the last national municipal vote in 2014, dropping 19 percentage points. Meanwhile, much of France appeared to be operating normally on Monday. In the Paris suburbs this morning, supermarkets were busy despite large gaps on the shelves, and the streets were still filled with pedestrians, cyclists and cars. This shows the endurance of engrained cultural habit. As Prime Minister Edouard Phillipe told news channel BFMTV: “I know it’s a concept that we’re averse to because us French people like to get together, he said. “We are a happy nation, happy to live together, even a bit more than usual when fear grips us.” Something deeper may also be at work. This is a crisis different from any that European countries have faced in a long time. When Paris suffered terror attacks in 2015, many residents refused to be cowed — to carry on as normal and thus not let anyone or anything that threatened everyday life beat them down. This “Keep Calm and Carry On” conditioning has sunk deep, and not just in France. In an era where courage has previously meant showing your face and gathering together with your fellow citizens, it may take a while before people realize that holing up and hiding is in fact the braver thing to do. If the virus’ spread is to be halted, it’s still an attitude that has to change, fast — as France’s Health Minister  Olivier Véran said Sunday in a TV interview. “We see grandparents who are happy with their grandchildren, and these are happy moments, it’s sunny — but I can tell you that the virus is invisible. It’s invisible and  threatens people’s lives, and I’m begging all French people watching to abide by the social distancing measures.”

As CityLab continues to cover the Covid-19 global pandemic, we want to hear stories from around the world of community resilience amidst the social distancing and disruptions of our daily lives. How is your neighborhood providing support to its vulnerable people? What creative ideas are emerging from your community? We are particularly looking for ideas related to the following topics: Managing child and elder care; Community support for vulnerable populations, from medical staff and hourly workers to homeless individuals; Sharing of resources like food, toilet paper and hand sanitizer; How families, neighbors and communities are staying connected despite physical restrictions. Please share your stories and information with us by email at citylab@bloomberg.net with the subject line: “Community Resilience”.

Sign up here to get the Brexit Bulletin in your inbox. A note from Bloomberg News:

The first human trial for a Covid-19 vaccine and steps to speed up coronavirus testing were small glimmers of hope as the virus spreads across the U.S. The good news comes as the school and business closures sweep across the country and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have recommended against any gathering larger than 50 people for the next eight weeks.

Turkey will take further steps to ensure access to liquidity amid the global coronavirus outbreak, Treasury and Finance Minister Berat Albayrak said on Twitter on Monday. The measures will be announced by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan this week, Albayrak said.

The poster for the music festival reads “la musica no se detiene, ni siquiera en tiempos tan duros como este.” The music does not stop, even in times as hard as this. Over the next two weeks, a group of 30 musicians from Spain will livestream video performances from the confines of their homes. Instead of singing to their fans in person, they’ll meet them where they’re at in a nation under a coronavirus lockdown: In their bedrooms and living rooms. This is Cuarentena Fest, one of a growing number of global arts events born of quarantine.  Cello teachers are leading lessons via Skype and FaceTime, ballet teachers are choreographing over Instagram Live, and performers like Italian tenor Maurizio Marchini are finding resourceful ways of overcoming quarantine rules (he’s taken to singing opera selections on his balcony in locked-down Florence). The Berlin Philharmonic, which is closed to the public until April 19, offered a free stream of a rousing Béla Bartók concerto, which was performed for an empty concert hall. Cultural programming was an early victim of the coronavirus crisis. After a series of increasingly stringent restrictions on public spaces and events in global cities, theaters, museums and libraries shuttered their doors and residents were urged to stay home. Over the past week, in-person music and film festivals like South by Southwest, Coachella and Tribeca were postponed or canceled, touring acts were grounded, film production halted. By the weekend, it became clear that the performing arts in general — in opera houses, rock clubs, concert halls and venues from Broadway to high schools — would be going on an extended hiatus in civic life.   And in the most symbolically consequential blow, on March 12, one day after an usher who worked at two Broadway theaters tested positive for the coronavirus, New York State Governor Andrew Cuomo called for a ban of all events over 500 people — including a temporary end to all Broadway shows until the week of April 13. The profound cultural loss of this mass silencing will be hard to quantify — escaping to new worlds will become only more vital as this one turns ever more grim; understanding others’ pain and joy more instructive as communities turn inward; laughing and listening more necessary to feel free as borders close. To cities and the artists that sustain them, the financial damage, too, will be immediate and profound. Broadway is one of the largest economic engines for New York City, bringing in around $1.8 billion in ticket sales last season; a month-long closure could mean $100 million in losses, Bloomberg News reports. Across the U.S., museums bring in an estimated $50 billion in revenue, including the spending they stimulate at surrounding businesses, and directly employ more than 350,000 people, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Live music ticket sales and sponsorships could have been worth $29 billion in 2020, PricewaterhouseCoopers estimated. “If we can’t congregate and showcase art and culture — whatever that means — a lot of people aren’t going to get paid,” said Shain Shapiro, the founder and CEO of Sound Diplomacy, which promotes economic development through music and nightlife, and holds global events. “I can understand that when you have to prioritize public health over everything else, then music, art and culture are the first things to go. We’re seeing we’re not a priority right now and I understand.” Some audiences can still enjoy art on screens. But the jobs associated with live, face-to-face entertainment are already drying up. When South by Southwest was cancelled, a third of its staff was laid off. Ten thousand union members of San Francisco’s entertainment and hospitality industry have been laid off, the San Francisco Labor Council told Time journalist Alana Semuels. “The impact on workers across the entertainment industry is unfathomable at this time,” said Laura Penn, executive director of the Stage Director and Choreographer’s Union, in a statement. The union represents 3,000 theater workers across the country. (Disclosure: The reporter’s mother is the executive board president of SDC.) Since those workers are primarily freelancers, they “rely on stable ecosystems of employers to make their lives work,” Penn continued. SDC’s immediate concern is keeping coverage for those who lose health insurance along with steady employment. “Many more needs will emerge as we begin to grasp the full measure of this crisis, but right now it’s health insurance.” Since so many workers in the entertainment industry string freelance gigs together instead of working for one employer year-round, closed shows mean both lost wages and gaps in health insurance coverage. The president and executive director of the American Guild of Musical Artists called on federal, state and local governments to offer relief packages to artists around the country, few of whom would benefit from the payroll tax cut proposed by President Donald Trump. The coronavirus emergency aid package, approved by the House on March 14, would be more expansive for those who aren’t on company payrolls, offering two weeks paid sick leave, and increased unemployment benefit support. “[I]t appears inevitable that many of our companies will be forced to close for an unforeseen amount of time in order to combat COVID-19,” wrote American Guild of Musical Artists in a statement. “This measure, while drastic, will undoubtedly help our nation combat the virus. But we cannot lose sight of the human cost.” Performers and entertainers of all kinds are finding their livelihoods threatened. Paula Zimmerman is a Manhattan-based psychic — she makes a living doing palm and tarot card readings at parties and in private consultations. “January and February are usually my slow times, so I’ve already been behind on my rent,” she said. “It usually picks up when the weather starts to get warmer, but nobody is hiring now.” The events she was supposed to work at are canceled or not scheduled at all. And at 71, Zimmerman is at a higher risk for catching a more serious case of Covid-19 herself; she understands that entering people’s homes ups her chances of getting sick, too. But she’s also struggling to pay the bills. Every month this continues, she expects to lose about $1,200 in income. For now, she’s been withholding her rent in case she needs cash for a medical emergency. Luckily, her landlord hasn’t bothered her for a check yet, so she can save while still paying for things she can’t go without: her medication, and the agency fee that connects her with jobs, and her cable and electricity payments. Chris Griswold, who moved to Oakland in September to teach improv comedy in the Bay Area, is self-employed and doesn’t have a union to negotiate for him. Griswold has lived through disasters before: When Hurricane Sandy hit in New York, he was working at Trader Joe’s, which covered his pay for the week the store was closed. “I’m kind of missing having an employer like that right now,” he said. As Griswold postpones classes and cancels performances, he worries that — depending on how long the state of emergency lasts — the city’s grassroots and institutional arts scenes will be seriously deflated. “A lot of performance organizations are shutting down,” he said. “Nailing boards over the windows, metaphorically, until this shadow passes over humanity.” Griswold’s fears speak to a broader concern: That even after the moratoriums or immediate emergency measures end, the fabric of local arts scenes may be permanently damaged. “Small groups — string quartets, neighborhood dance schools, shoestring theater companies — operate on the thinnest of margins. Some will likely disappear,” wrote Justin Davidson in Vulture. “Audiences who are kept away for an extended period lose the habit and may not come back.” Emery Schaffer, a playwright and producer in New York City, had to cancel future performances of her play A My Name Is Allison, which opened this March, and another short play as part of a series at the Brunch Theatre. She had paid the team for Allison upfront, so they’re not losing wages due to lost ticket sales, but worries that The Tank, the independent theater that was hosting it, might not survive the blow. She’s encouraging people who refund their tickets to donate the proceeds back, and is hopeful that once this all blows over, the production will be able to run in the future. After graduating from NYU a few years ago, these were the first plays of hers to premiere. “I’m optimistic that we’ll get to do it again, but obviously that’s not the same for a lot of other people, and it’s a huge bummer,” she said. “Every time I open my phone, someone else’s dreams are crushed.” Shapiro, who’s based in the U.K. and has been in voluntary isolation since a coworker got sick, has a slightly more optimistic view — that the coronavirus blackouts will reinforce the importance of art in an increasingly distanced world. “This may force us to really rethink why we do what we do and how we do what we do,” he said. “The one thing that I believe and I hope — as a human being and as someone whose life is made sense through music and culture — is that this will promote a different kind of localism, and get them to recognize the impact and value that local artists, whatever the discipline, play in their life.” When it comes time for cities of all sizes to rebuild their cultural infrastructure, Shapiro says federal government incentive programs such as Opportunity Zones and Tax-Increment Financing should have clearer mandates to help support arts projects. “It’s so hard to access [that] financing for anything that’s not in the tens of millions,” he said, by way of example. “Why can’t you argue the economic benefit of something in 10 years’ time if it’s a recording studio or a dance company?” Schaffer, whose other stream of income comes from nannying, has gone home to Philadelphia to be with her parents. Even while isolated from New York’s theater community, she’s inspired by the calls for virtual collaboration she’s seeing on Facebook — people in her network are swapping contact info via Google Doc to share their writing, and doing readings of scripts over Zoom. “[It] really shows how strong the artist community really is, and how we want to do things even if we can’t,” she said. “It just shows the resilience of people who do this. It’s pretty amazing.” Last week, to help bring in a little income, Zimmerman started doing socially distanced psychic readings: She’ll tell you your future remotely, charging $7 for an email message or $10 for a phone call. “I hate to demean myself like that financially,” she said. “But I think a lot of people will have to start doing that: settle for less because of the circumstances.”

Want to receive this post in your inbox every day? Sign up for the Balance of Power newsletter, and follow Bloomberg Politics on Twitter and Facebook for more. The U.S. Federal Reserve deployed some unscheduled shock and awe against the coronavirus yesterday, slashing its benchmark rate back to a record low. Global markets slumped.

Oil companies are being forced to pay exorbitant prices for oil tankers as shipowners book vessels for storage and Saudi Arabia snaps up ships as it prepares to flood the market with crude. Reliance Industries Ltd. booked the supertanker Princess Mary for more than $400,000 a day to haul crude from the Middle East to the west coast of India in early April, according to vessel pool Tankers International.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. President Donald Trump said the U.S. government would strongly back the nation’s airlines, hours after the industry said it needed $58 billion in aid as travel demand collapses because of the coronavirus.

Vietnam’s central bank, joining a wave of easing across Asia to bolster economic growth amid the novel coronavirus outbreak, announced Monday night it was cutting policy interest rates. The State Bank of Vietnam cut its refinance rate to 5% from 6%, effective today, it said in a statement posted on its website. The regulator also lowered its discount rate to 3.5% from 4%, and reduced the repurchase rate, known as the open-market operations rate, by the same magnitude. The overnight lending rate in the inter-bank market is reduced to 6% vs 7%, according to the statement.

Amazon.com Inc. suffered a technical glitch on Sunday affecting online grocery orders through its Whole Foods and Amazon Fresh delivery services, which have become lifelines for household essentials for people looking to avoid stores due to the coronavirus outbreak. “As COVID-19 has spread, we’ve seen a significant increase in people shopping online for groceries,” an Amazon spokeswoman said in a statement. “Today this resulted in a systems impact affecting our ability to deliver Amazon Fresh and Whole Foods Market orders tonight. We’re contacting customers, issuing concessions, and are working around the clock to quickly to resolve the issue.”

President Donald Trump markedly shifted his tone on the coronavirus outbreak, warning Monday that it could last months and drive the U.S. into an economic recession after he had repeatedly minimized the impact. In a remarkable pivot, Trump advised Americans against gathering in groups of more than 10 people and said they should stop eating out at restaurants and going to bars. Children should be educated at home to the extent possible, he said. The U.S. may still be fighting the outbreak until August or later, he said.

California Governor Gavin Newsom called on state lawmakers to approve an emergency $500 million spending package to help combat the coronavirus outbreak. He also asked for legislation that would provide an additional $100 million to schools and allow them to maintain funding levels even though many districts are closed because of the crisis. Newsom declared a statewide emergency Sunday.

YouTube is leaning on its software to screen videos as it adjusts its content moderation practices in the wake of the coronavirus. Alphabet Inc.'s Google, which owns YouTube, the world's biggest video site, announced Monday it would be temporarily increasing its reliance on automated content moderation, explaining in a blog post that its goal is to “continue to act quickly to remove violative content and protect our ecosystem, while we have workplace protections in place.”  A YouTube spokeswoman declined to say if the company was eliminating content moderation positions or if workers would be able to screen videos remotely.

The White House Office of Science and Technology Policy on Monday unveiled a new database with thousands of scientific articles about the coronavirus in an effort to help public health experts combat the worsening pandemic.U.S. Chief Technology Officer Michael Krastios told reporters that the new database is a “call to action” for tech companies to use artificial intelligence to mine the research to answer important questions about the virus.The new database, which already has some 29,000 scholarly articles, is the latest effort by tech companies and the Office of Science and Technology Policy to coordinate a response to the health crisis.Last week, Krastios led a call with Amazon.com Inc., Apple Inc., Microsoft Corp. and International Business Machines Corp. to discuss how tech platforms can combat misinformation about the virus and products on the internet. Eric Horvitz, Microsoft’s chief scientific officer, said the database will help scientists stay on top of “thousands of articles.”

Sign up to receive the Green Daily newsletter in your inbox every weekday. European Central Bank President Christine Lagarde once spent more time talking about climate change than inflation. It happened during a press conference in Frankfurt less than two months ago, but already feels like something from another century—or planet.

Follow Bloomberg on LINE messenger for all the business news and analysis you need. While Asian housing markets from Hong Kong to Bangkok buckle under the outbreak of coronavirus, Singapore seems to be holding up, at least for now.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Investors in emerging-market stocks are witnessing an unprecedented sell-off that’s totted up some eye-watering numbers.

Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Somalia suspended all flights other than humanitarian ones after the Horn of Africa nation reported its first case of coronavirus.

For a fresh perspective on the stories that matter for Australian business and politics, sign up for our new weekly newsletter. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison is considering further economic measures and support to buttress the economy, just days after announcing a A$17.6 billion ($10.8 billion) stimulus package.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Lucian Grainge, chief executive officer of Universal Music Group Inc., has been hospitalized after testing positive for Covid-19, according to a person familiar with the matter.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Finland’s government is preparing to invoke emergency powers to combat the spread of the novel coronavirus and has unveiled 5 billion euros ($5.6 billion) worth of measures to help its economy.

Mortgage prices rose and spreads tightened Monday morning as investors responded favorably to the Federal Reserve’s weekend announcement that it will resume net purchases of agency MBS for the first time since October 2014. As of 11 a.m. New York time, prices had surged across the entire conventional 30-year coupon stack, with the lower coupons -- the 2.5% and 3% -- easily besting their Treasury and swap hedges, buoyed in part by the fact those coupons will be the primary target of Fed purchases. The same outperformance was also seen in lower coupon Ginnie Mae II 30-year coupons.

The hit to New York’s restaurant industry from the novel coronavirus has been fast and devastating. A series of events that started on March 13, when several of the city’s most famous dining rooms—Le Bernardin, Daniel, and Smith & Wollensky, to name a few—announced they were closing indefinitely, has culminated in an order from Mayor Bill de Blasio to close all the city’s  restaurants and bars. Starting at 9 a.m. on March 17, restaurants will be open only for delivery and takeout. Similar rules have been put in place in states including Illinois, Massachusetts, and Ohio, as well as in Washington, D.C., and Los Angeles.  In response, industry activists are working to support imperiled, independently owned restaurants. Dining Bonds is an initiative started by hospitality executives. The model is simple: A $100 “bond” will be sold for $75 and can be cashed in for full value after the redemption date. (The money, however, is nonrefundable in the event that a restaurant closes permanently.) “It is meant to evoke the feeling of a wartime savings bond, which is what the industry feels like right now. Customers are investing in the future,” says Helen Patrikis of HR-PR and co-founder of the initiative with Steven Hall, president of Hall PR. The value of each bond, which is essentially a discounted gift certificate, will be determined by individual restaurants. Dining Bonds connects the diner and the restaurant; the restaurant’s landing page will have a designated place for the transaction. The program goes live on March 16. Almost three dozen restaurants have signed up, including James Beard-nominated Adda Indian Canteen and  Japanese sando specialists Hi-Collar in New York, as well as Million Dollar Cowboy Steakhouse in Jackson Hole, Wyo., and the fine-dining Vietnamese spot Crustacean in Beverly Hills. Grubhub Inc., the restaurant delivery platform, has announced the Community Relief Fund, which will earmark contributions—more than $1 million a month, the company says—from its Donate the Change program for charities that support workers and restaurants impacted by the virus. Grubhub is also temporarily deferring commission fees of as much as $100 million for independent restaurants across the country that have been affected by the coronavirus. The nonprofit Restaurant Workers Community Foundation, co-founded by Bloomberg Pursuits contributor John deBary, has also created a donation page to help people in the industry affected by the coronavirus, as well as a page that aggregates available resources. A familiar name has stepped into the relief game, too. On March 15,  José Andrés said he’s closing all of his ThinkFoodGroup restaurants in New York and Washington, D.C.—including  Mercado Little Spain at Hudson Yards and Zaytinya—to repurpose several of them as community kitchens. They will operate as takeout businesses with a limited menu and flexible pricing “for those that can’t afford to pay.” Andrés says it’s part of an effort from his nonprofit World Central Kitchen (although not directly tied to it) and the free meals they’ve distributed to crisis-hit places around the globe.

The continuing rout in global stocks obliterated about $4 trillion of market value Monday, but one billionaire is managing to avoid the onslaught as social distancing becomes the norm. Eric Yuan, the founder of Zoom Video Communications Inc., added $20 million to his net worth Monday while the S&P 500 plunged 12%. Shares of the video-conferencing company climbed 0.4%, boosting its year-to-date gain to 58%. They advanced an additional 3.5% in early trading Tuesday  after Needham & Co. analyst Richard Valera recommended that investors buy the stock.

A trio of Russian billionaires named by former British spy Christopher Steele in his dossier about alleged ties between Moscow and Donald Trump’s campaign aren’t “creatures of the Kremlin,” their lawyer said at the start of a London trial. Mikhail Fridman and his fellow Alfa Group billionaire Petr Aven arranged for the delivery of “large amounts of illicit cash” to Vladimir Putin in the 1990s, Steele said in his report. The allegation was “demonstrably false” and the two, plus a third director, German Khan, “had nothing to do with any of this,” their attorney said Monday.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Singapore Airlines Ltd. said passenger carriage tumbled last month as the fast-spreading coronavirus curbed travel demand, adding that market conditions continued to deteriorate in March.

A group representing U.S. consumer goods manufacturers called for federal aid to help avoid supply disruptions as customers emptied shelves on fears of the spreading coronavirus. The Consumer Brands Association, an industry trade group, asked for emergency federal funding to help mitigate any supply chain problems and manage input shortages. The group released a letter to President Donald Trump after he convened a Sunday afternoon conference call with U.S. grocery executives.

A nationwide website to help Americans figure out if they should be tested for Covid-19 will be ready “early in the week,” Vice President Mike Pence said. The website would feature a questionnaire that would assess whether someone needs to be tested. Eventually, patients will be able to book a specific time and location to be tested, Pence said.

Germany’s top soccer organization agreed with Bundesliga clubs to suspend matches in the first and second divisions until end of March, according to an emailed statement on Monday. The organization will hold another meeting in the last week of March to decide on whether to continue to the suspension, the German Soccer League, or DFL, said.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. South Africa’s ruling African National Congress has postponed all upcoming party conferences, including a key policy meeting that was scheduled for June, amid concerns about the coronavirus.

Sign up for Next China, a weekly email on where the nation stands now and where it's going next. China is broadening its range of policy incentives to encourage large private hog farms to expand by upgrading technology and safety standards, part of efforts to boost investment after African swine fever devastated herds and the coronavirus epidemic slowed the economy.

On November 27, 1910, New York City celebrated the opening of Pennsylvania Station. An estimated crowd of 100,000 came to see the new Beaux-Arts masterpiece. With slightly less fanfare, Sunnyside Yard in Queens came online that day as well. At the time, the 180-acre floodlit complex was the largest railroad yard in America, serving dozens of trains that now could go straight into Manhattan. The station is no more — torn down in the 1960s, to become an enduring symbol for the historic preservation movement. Its namesake railroad merged with the New York Central and has also gone the way of all flesh. But the rail yards live on, serving about 780 trains from Amtrak’s Northeast Corridor and commuter train lines each day. And in 2020 New York, Sunnyside Yard has become a much-coveted rarity: a large tract of undeveloped land in the biggest city in the United States. But that could be about to change. In 2014, Amtrak, while making its own upgrades to the yards, developed a partnership to use the land, and three years later, a study outlined the possibility of building a concrete deck over the yards to allow development on top of it. A steering committee made up of various stakeholders went through a series of neighborhood consultations and public workshops, and on March 3, Amtrak and New York City released its Sunnyside Yard master plan.* The development promises 12,000 homes, plus schools, libraries, a new commuter railroad station, a new subway line and a new bus line. “We’re living in a moment where a lot of needs are being identified,” says Vishaan Chakrabarti, the founder of Practice for Architecture and Urbanism (PAU) and the lead planner for the project. “We have a housing crisis. We have an infrastructure shortage. These are needs of the moment, but they’re not going away.” Chakrabarti touts the plan as a forward-thinking idea for a holistic neighborhood, which will be carbon-neutral and optimized for walkability and transit, not cars. PAU’s renderings of this future city-in-a-city show a utopian mix of sleek mid-rises amid abundant green space and bike paths. The Sunnyside Yard project has already drawn pointed comparisons with Hudson Yards, the privately funded enclave of luxury apartments and retail that debuted in Manhattan last year, amid near-universal criticism. But what’s planned for Sunnyside Yard will be a far bigger — the site is about six times the size of Hudson Yards — and, its backers say, fundamentally different: Its 12,000 housing units are designed to be affordable to low- and middle-income families. If it’s built, it would be the largest such housing project built in New York City since the early 1970s. Grech, president and chief operating officer of the Queens Chamber of Commerce, sees the Queens project as a potential national model for a transit-oriented mega-development. “It’s a monumental time, similar to when they built the World Trade Center and then re-envisioned it after 9/11. They’re kind of once-in-a-lifetime things, but you have to do it right, and I think we’re on the track to do it right.” Not everyone in Queens agrees — Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez dropped out of the Sunnyside steering committee in February, citing lack of community input on the direction of the project. And the development faces a host of other, more technical challenges. There’s a good reason why this big opportunity remained untapped for so long: It’s very difficult and expensive to deck over working railroad yards, particularly if you’re going to build large structures on top of them. Cost estimates for Sunnyside Yard have ranged from $16 billion to $22 billion. But with open land in New York City scarce and housing prices sky-high, the allure of activating this site is strong. “As Long Island City has become more and more densely developed, it only makes the site even more appealing,” says former New York Times architecture critic Paul Goldberger.   It’s not, however, the first time developers have tried to build big things here. Through the years, several ambitious projects have been advanced for the Sunnyside site. “There have been arguments about putting all kinds of things there for years,” says Jason Antos, president of the Queens Historical Society. “But they never got off the drawing board.” Among those schemes was a high-rise office/transit hub pitched in the 1930s and in 2014, a failed plan to relocate the city’s convention center there. But most builders who eyed the railyard over the second half of the 20th century saw it as the perfect place for major sports venues. That reflected geography, in part: Sunnyside Yard is transit-accessible and close to the geographical center of the five boroughs of New York City. But it was also driven by the dreams of a borough that had no major league sports. In the 1950s, as Major League Baseball embarked on a period of expansion and franchise-shuffling, Queens jockeyed for a team of its own, and the status it could confer. At that time, the Dodgers owned Brooklyn, the Giants played at the aging Polo Grounds at the northern tip of Manhattan, and the Yankees were just across the Harlem River in the Bronx. “People looked to Queens like the Wild West,” Major League Baseball historian John Thorn says. “It was the new frontier. There was land to be had. It’s the same way New Yorkers looked at Brooklyn in the 1830s.” When Giants owner Horace Stoneham considered moving his team –- likely to Minneapolis, where their top minor league club was, Thorn says –- the Queens Chamber of Commerce offered in 1956 to make the club the central tenant of a stadium that would be the centerpiece of an entertainment center built atop Sunnyside Yard. “The Giants are still having trouble finding a new home with adequate parking and close to rapid transit,” Queens Chamber vice president A. Edward MacDougall wrote in his proposal. “Just considering those requirements, nothing in the entire City of New York compares with our Queens site. It’s the geographical center of New York City.” Instead, the Giants decamped for California, and Queens baseball would have to wait until 1964, when the Mets, an expansion team formed two years earlier, moved into a new stadium at Flushing Meadows. A decade later, Sunnyside Yard, by then run by the Penn Central railroad, was again touted as the site for a sports venue — this time in an interstate squabble between New York and New Jersey, as well as an intrastate squabble within the Empire State itself. Plans were underway for what would become known as the Meadowlands Sports Complex in 1973 when New York Governor Nelson Rockefeller announced the state would sell $275 million in bonds for a new complex at Sunnyside Yard, including a 1,000-room resort and convention hotel, parking for 20,000 cars, and an 80,000-seat NFL stadium. The project drew the ire of New Jersey –- there were only so many large sports tenants to go around, even in New York — as well as borough and New York City officials, who said they weren’t consulted. Ultimately, the plans were undone by concerns over traffic, a common refrain for any large-scale project in New York, and the bankruptcy of the Penn Central, which delayed the project enough for it to get lapped by the Meadowlands. One of the real estate developers scavenging the Penn Central was a Queens native named Donald Trump. After turning the railroad’s former Commodore Hotel into the Trump Grand Hyatt, he’d bought the New Jersey Generals of the upstart USFL in 1984. Intent on making the Generals New York City’s team, he promised to build a “Trump Stadium” within the five boroughs and cast an eye toward Sunnyside Yard, but the stadium he announced plans for would be near Shea Stadium in Flushing Meadows. Ultimately, Trump led the USFL into oblivion, and Sunnyside Yard remained a home only for trains. Yet another stadium scheme came via New York City’s bid for the 2012 Olympics. That effort formally proposed building a stadium over the West Side Yards, which would be used after the Games for the New York Jets –- and possibly the Mets as well. Sunnyside Yard was also considered, but probably not that seriously, Goldberger says. “That site would have been ideal for [the Mets’] Citi Field, which would have given it a more urban location than the present one,” says Goldberger, author of the 2019 book Ballpark: Baseball in the American City. “I don’t recall that there was ever a public discussion of it, however, so the consideration of it for the Mets must have been brief and fairly superficial.” Ultimately, the Mets built Citi Field next to Shea Stadium. In today’s New York, where mostly vacant supertalls loom over some of the most expensive real estate in America, there’s really no appetite for a sports venue at Sunnyside Yard, much less the acres of parking lots that such stadiums usually require. Other priorities are far more pressing. “There’s a huge need for affordable housing, and projects like [a stadium] would make housing less affordable,” Antos notes. The master plan presented by PAU, with its transit-oriented virtues and emphasis on efficient and sustainable urban living, might not have the razzle-dazzle of past plans for skyscrapers, convention centers, and stadium-anchored entertainment complexes. But to Chakrabarti, it’s just as grandiose. Because of the involvement of local, state and federal interests, a governing authority will likely have to be created to oversee the project; the will to get it built, Chakrabarti says, will be a referendum on who we are as Americans. “We have to recall the country that built projects like Hoover Dam and went to the moon,” he says. “Can we still think big and build things by the public, for the public? This is still a moon shot. But it’s the right moon shot.”*CORRECTION: This story has been updated to clarify the role of Amtrak and the City of New York.

Bridgewater Associates, the world’s biggest hedge fund, has built up a $14 billion bet that shares in European companies will continue to sink amid the worsening coronavirus outbreak. The investment firm led by billionaire Ray Dalio made a string of wagers against stocks in countries from Germany to Italy, according to filings between March 9 and 12 compiled by Bloomberg. They include a $1 billion bet against software company SAP SE and a $715 million wager against semiconductor equipment maker ASML Holding NV.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. It’s getting tougher for refiners to make money on gasoline as demand plunges, signaling more dark days ahead for oil markets.

Carnival Corp., the largest player in a cruise industry reeling from the effects of the coronavirus, said it expects a loss this fiscal year and is taking steps to improve liquidity. The efforts include cutting investments and expenses and looking for additional financing, Carnival said in a statement Monday. The company said it provided notice on Friday to borrow about $3 billion for six months under an existing credit facility, fully drawing down the credit line to meet working capital, general corporate and other needs.

Want the lowdown on European markets? In your inbox before the open, every day. Sign up here. Closed borders, travel bans and canceled vacations have sent aircraft companies such as Boeing Co. rushing to draw on emergency credit lines or arrange new short-term financing as the pandemic rages.





































































































































































































































































































































Joe Biden swept the Democratic presidential primaries being held Tuesday, winning in Arizona, Florida and Illinois giving him a commanding lead over his rival Bernie Sanders in the battle to secure the party’s nomination. Biden’s domination of the race since the South Carolina primary has put him on a glide path to the party’s nomination to take on President Donald Trump in November.

Welcome to the Brussels Edition, Bloomberg’s daily briefing on what matters most in the heart of the European Union. Sign up here to get it in your inbox every weekday morning. Europe is on a  war footing. During yet another emergency call today, EU leaders are expected to decide to  close the bloc’s borders to both incoming and outgoing travel, and may warn President Donald Trump to back off from attempted takeovers of European companies working on a vaccine against the deadly coronavirus. They’ll also likely reiterate that they’ll do whatever it takes to  cushion the impact of an illness-induced recession. But markets are pricing in that the worst is yet to come, and it’s unclear if any such pledges will convince them otherwise. Of all the indicators flashing red, Italian bond yields are the ones to watch again today for the dangers that lie ahead.

In June 1899, the steamer Nippon Maru arrived at Honolulu carrying one passenger who had died during the trans-Pacific voyage. The Hawaii Board of Health immediately quarantined the ship for a week as a precaution against the bubonic plague, which was then ravaging much of Asia. The freighter departed for San Francisco without further fatalities, but rats and fleas aboard the ship managed to break the quarantine. In December, plague took a first victim in Honolulu’s crowded Chinatown. The epidemic that reached Honolulu had originated in China in the 1870s, spreading slowly until it reached the commercial cities of Guangzhou and then Hong Kong in 1899. Steamships may not have been as fast as modern jetliners, but they still linked Asia, Europe, Africa and the Americas into a global economy — and a global disease network. Honolulu, booming as a Pacific entrepôt, was especially determined to fend off what many saw as an Asiatic threat. Disease outbreaks are often racialized and made vehicles for nativist beliefs and ethnic hatreds. In 2020, some commentators continue to misleadingly and dangerously call Covid-19, the disease caused by the new coronavirus, the “Chinese flu” — a term that has helped to trigger anti-Asian harassment in the United States and Europe. That rhetoric has been encouraged by some conservative political leaders: House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy prefers “Chinese coronavirus,” while Mike Pompeo insists on “Wuhan coronavirus.” President Donald Trump has frequently vowed to defend Americans against a “foreign virus.” As this March 17 tweet from a CBS reporter indicates, other, less-veiled terms appear to be circulating at the White House.  This morning a White House official referred to #Coronavirus as the “Kung-Flu” to my face. Makes me wonder what they’re calling it behind my back. Racism was even more blatant at the turn of the 20th century. Noting that white people in Asia were less likely to contract plague than were locals, so-called experts attributed the difference to inherent racial superiority and proper European habits rather than economic advantage and colonial privilege. Historian James Mohr, author of the 2004 book Plague and Fire: Battling Black Death and the 1900 Burning of Honolulu’s Chinatown, described how one Honolulu resident spoke for many when she optimistically wrote that “plague seldom attacks clean white people.”   Asian immigrant communities in the cities of the American West in that era were already viewed as exotic nuisances, easy to romanticize for tourists and easy to raid in vice crackdowns. Police officials could stand four-square for virtue by raiding opium parlors and back rooms where Asian gamblers played fan tan while ignoring more-numerous gambling joints and saloons with white customers. Tour guides in San Francisco manufactured a fake narrative of danger and depravity, leading visitors on rambles through Chinatown basements and hiring local residents as fake denizens of opium dens. Novelist Frank Norris titled an 1897 article about San Francisco’s Chinese neighborhood “The Third Circle,” in a reference to Dante’s seven circles of hell, and called the neighborhood a “noisome swamp.” The very existence of Chinatowns in cities like Vancouver, Portland, and San Francisco gave residents of European heritage the thrill of confronting the “other” while remaining firmly in charge. It was a short step from seeing Asians as a social threat to fearing that the segregated communities in which they lived — undeniably crowded and unsanitary in many cases — posed physical dangers as sources of disease. These fears came to a climax in Honolulu, whose “Chinatown” housed 3,000 Chinese, 1,500 Japanese, and 1,000 Native Hawaiian residents in densely packed two-story wooden buildings, backyard shacks, and shanties with little fresh water and terrible sanitation. When plague appeared in December 1899, public health officials first quarantined the neighborhood, responding simultaneously to concrete epidemiological concerns and to fears that Asian residents might contaminate the entire community. Hard-working Chinese and Japanese saw the action as one more example of race-based discrimination. In a blog post for Oxford University Press last week, Mohr observed: Since the early victims were Chinese, ugly cries arose for the destruction of all Asian neighborhoods on the pretext that they seemed to be breeding grounds for plague; blaming victims and increased hostility toward minorities had been hallmarks of health-related panics since ancient times. The Board of Health also attempted to sanitize with fire, burning buildings where plague victims had died. On January 20, 1900, a controlled burn roared out of control, consuming a fifth of Honolulu’s buildings and the homes of 5,000 people. White residents who had come to gawk at the fire also gathered with baseball bats and pick handles, to ensure that the fire victims ended up in tightly controlled refugee camps. The Honolulu fire was a particularly vivid illustration of how Americans apply racialized assumptions of disease transmission, but many others can be found throughout the 20th century. In some cases, public health panics disguise other motives. The Board of Health in Reno, Nevada, razed most of that city’s Chinatown in 1908 in the name of cleanliness and morality, conveniently making land available for redevelopment. When bubonic plague appeared in Los Angeles in 1924, authorities quarantined the Mexican-American neighborhood south of downtown, destroying hundreds of homes in the name of sanitation. In his book Whitewashed Adobe: The Rise of Los Angeles and the Remaking of Its Mexican Past, historian William Deverell writes that “the destruction of these homes and shacks was part of an overall plan,” in which Mexican-American residents were first declared to be public health nuisances so that no compensation would need to be paid. The Reno and Los Angeles actions had the same effect as the destruction of black Tulsa in 1921, eliminating competition and promoting real estate development, minus the murdering mobs. And it’s not a long reach from the real public health threats of plague to the metaphorical disease of “blight” that disproportionately afflicted African-American and Latino neighborhoods in the urban renewal era. Unlike Reno and Los Angeles, the actions in Honolulu were ill-fated but not explicitly malign. Burning Chinatown was a tragic accident, not a plan. The disaster reflected ignorance as well as racism: Unfamiliar with plague, health officials deployed quarantine measures that had worked against cholera a few years earlier, unaware that the diseases are transmitted differently. After the fire, the plague slowly subsided, although it appeared at Kahului on Maui, where another small Chinatown was burned in February. Some Japanese and Chinese residents rebuilt on the ashes, but many dispersed into other parts of Honolulu. The U.S. government eventually provided partial compensation for property losses. At the same time, officials could not escape their belief that racial minorities and outsiders were responsible for spreading the “foreign bacillus” from China among white Americans. Among certain leaders, that same reflexive understanding seems to be alive and well today.

Don’t even think about socially isolating from coronavirus in a vacation home. This was the message from Norway’s government this weekend, as the global coronavirus pandemic started to spread across the country. Prime Minister Erna Solberg spoke Saturday to order urbanites holed up in rural cabins to return to their regular homes in the cities. On Monday, the government doubled down, warning that anyone not staying at their home address faced a fine of 20,000 Norwegian Crowns ($1,952) or 15 days in jail. The penalties are harsh, but there is reasoning behind them. Summer houses are extremely common across Scandinavia, while the permanent population of many rural areas is small and often thinly spread. Picturesque areas such as Hallingdal, a mountain valley halfway between Norway’s two largest cities, have wildly fluctuating populations, with only 21,000 residents in winter but 120,000 in summer. Small-town mayors have been warning that if large numbers of people decamp to their municipalities from Oslo and Bergen and then fall ill, things could get ugly. Not only would the virus be likely to spread faster, but local hospital facilities might be unable to deal with the volume of sick patients. City-dwellers are thus much better off staying home where hospital beds and health care will be more widely available if needed, the argument goes. This message may resonate with people in other parts of the world, where rural facilities also typically have far more limited capacity. Few other countries are likely to see population fluctuations from summer homes quite as dramatic as Norway’s, so the risks may not be quite as high. But if enough people relocate from their current homes to socially isolate in more pastoral settings, local governments’ capacity to plan for treatment will be affected. It’s at least worth thinking about what your health-care options might be before you set off.

Bernie Sanders drew 5.3 million views at three online campaign events, with the help of friends like Neil Young. On Saturday, the Vermont senator hosted an FDR-style “fireside chat” livestreamed from his home in Burlington that his campaign said was viewed more than 2.8 million times. He picked up another 1 million views with an hourlong policy video program.

Bear markets can be stressful no matter what. But the speed of the slump, the whiplash of market swings and the strains of working from home have raised alarm about the faltering liquidity in even the biggest financial markets.  The Federal Reserve’s stimulus efforts on Sunday did little to calm the equities market and investors have continued to call for more help.

Moving ahead with the Olympics this summer in Tokyo would be “insensitive and irresponsible,” according to Canadian ice hockey player and International Olympic Committee member Hayley Wickenheiser. In the most direct comments yet by an IOC member, Wickenheiser said on her Twitter account that the games shouldn’t be held. “Athletes can’t train,” she said. “Attendees can’t travel plan. Sponsors and marketers can’t market with any degree of sensitivity.” I’ve given this a lot of thought, and over the past few days my perspective has changed. I was voted to represent and protect athletes. As an IOCAC member, 6x Olympian and Medical doctor in training on the front lines in ER up until this week,these are my thoughts on @Olympics : pic.twitter.com/vrvfsQZ1GO Wickenheiser sits on the IOC athlete committee, and is a former member of its medical committee. Her comments come just hours after the IOC’s executive board, of which she is not a member, said it remained dedicated to holding the 2020 Summer Games from July 24 to Aug. 9. That said, the IOC’s tone around the event is changing. After weeks of refusing to entertain the idea that the games might be disrupted, the executive board on Tuesday softened its tone significantly. It acknowledged an “unprecedented situation,” and one that is “changing day by day.” Planning for the Tokyo Games has been underway for a decade. The games have a direct budget of nearly $6 billion, with some 11,000 athletes and 600,000 spectators expected to attend. Wickenheiser participated in five Winter Games as an athlete, winning gold medals in 2002, 2006, 2010 and 2014, and silver in 1998. She also competed in the 2000 Summer Games in softball. “I can only imagine and try to empathize with the anxiety and heartbreak athletes are feeling right now,” she said. “The uncertainty of not knowing where you’re going to train tomorrow, as facilities close and qualification events are canceled all over the world, would be terrible if you’ve been training your whole life for this.” Read more: Will Coronavirus Take Out the 2020 Tokyo Olympics?: QuickTake

California lawmakers approved an emergency $500 million spending package to help combat the coronavirus pandemic. The money will be used to lease two hospitals, finance equipment and assist clinics, nursing homes and other facilities. Some of the funds will pay for cleaning daycare centers so they can remain open and to help stop the spread of the virus among the homeless. The legislation allows for another $500 million appropriation if needed.

On Monday afternoon, the Bay Area became the first region in the U.S. to institute a shelter in place to prevent the spread of Covid-19, barring visits to restaurants or bars or the hair salon, having friends over, and taking unnecessary public transit trips. The restriction made another recent San Francisco measure all-the-more urgent: keeping people housed while they deal with the cascading economic toll of such an emergency. As other cities consider escalating their own lockdowns in the coming days, they are already following the lead of San Francisco by pursuing eviction freezes, foreclosure pauses, and utility shut-off deferrals. Over the past few days, the states of California and New York, and cities including Los Angeles, Miami, Orlando, Seattle, and Philadelphia have taken up a range of housing security strategies, hoping to avoid exacerbating the public health crisis posed by Covid-19 by pushing more people into homelessness. These efforts follow earlier measures in Singapore and Italy to stem homelessness during outbreaks there. Across the U.S., The Guardian reports that almost 90 cities and states have stopped shutting off people’s water utilities, even if they can’t afford to pay their bills. Detroit is one of the few cities that has taken this measure a step further, restoring water access to tens of thousands of poor residents whose taps had previously been shut off due to debt. The U.S. has not passed a blanket national moratorium (although the federal government has taken steps to suspend some government-backed evictions and foreclosures). But Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders has called for federal lawmakers to prevent all evictions, foreclosures, and utility bill collections. Because each jurisdiction handles housing policy differently, officials are pulling different levers to protect renters and homeowners alike: Penalizing landlords for kicking tenants out, telling their police and sheriff’s departments to stop enforcing pending or new eviction notices, and urging banks and utility companies to temporarily forgive non-payments. Several of the proposals recognize the financial burden of mass social isolation and business closures by tying the housing reprieves to documented coronavirus-related losses. Others take a blanket approach to protecting people from housing insecurity during a global pandemic. “People shouldn’t lose or be forced out of their home because of the spread of COVID-19,” California Governor Gavin Newsom said in a statement, after he issued an executive order giving local governments the authority to impose their own moratoria. “Over the next few weeks, everyone will have to make sacrifices — but a place to live shouldn’t be one of them. I strongly encourage cities and counties take up this authority to protect Californians.” Tenants’ rights organizations said that the measure was disappointing because it didn’t bar evictions outright at the state level. Meanwhile, in cities like San Jose and San Francisco, lawmakers have already taken up their authority, and are finalizing measures that freeze evictions for a set period of time. Both require affected tenants to demonstrate some kind of coronavirus-related loss. San Francisco, whose mayor London Breed enacted the eviction moratorium on March 13, is also working on more non-binding resolutions that would urge banks and utility companies to freeze foreclosures and utility debt. In Los Angeles — where 63% of the city’s 4 million residents are renters, and a third of them pay half or more of their earned income on rent — Mayor Eric Garcetti issued an executive order to halt evictions for struggling tenants. Documented child-care, domestic-care, or health-care expenses could prove need, as well as work stoppages; and rent would be due six months after the state of emergency ends. Some other cities whose constituents have pushed them to take action say they’re looking to their states or counties to act first, due to preemption measures or court powers. Even without issuing a legislative moratorium on landlord-initiated evictions, however, cities can direct (or urge) law enforcement to stand down and stop expelling people from their homes, or halt court proceedings already in motion. In the Miami area, for example, an immediate halt on evictions came not from a proposal through city council, but directly from the police department: After Miami-Dade Mayor Carlos A. Gimenez declared a state of emergency on March 11, the department announced it was temporarily suspending its own activities to enforce evictions “until further notice,” effectively halting tenants’ removals. Law enforcement in Philadelphia, which ranks fourth in the nation for eviction filings, started collaborating with the city after Councilmember Helen Gym successfully lobbied the city’s sheriff and its courts to stop enforcing evictions, residential foreclosures, and tax liens on residential properties for at least the next two weeks. Just this week, more than 550 evictions were scheduled to be heard — as part of the emergency eviction pause, the courts also agreed to pause hearing those cases already in the pipeline. During those two weeks, major gas, electric, and WiFi utilities won’t pursue shut-offs, either. “We know that one of the most dangerous things we can do at this time — when we’re telling people to stay at home or be in safe places — is to take away a roof over people’s heads, or turn off their water or electricity because they’re not allowed to work right now,” Gym told CityLab. New York State is currently the area experiencing the largest number of coronavirus cases — more than 1,300 and climbing fast — and lawmakers there are attacking housing insecurity from all sides. After New York Governor Andrew Cuomo declared a state disaster emergency, state legislators Brad Hoylman and Brian Kavanagh submitted legislation that would prohibit landlords from evicting tenants without a court order, and gives new powers to courts to stop evictions, foreclosures, and “adjust lease obligations.” The state courts took their own decisive action over the weekend, issuing an indefinite end to eviction proceedings at the residential and commercial level, and a stall on all pending housing court orders across the state. This order extends New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio’s own commitment to suspend evictions in the city for three months. Oakland, too, is taking a two-pronged approach. Under pressure from housing activists last week, Oakland’s city council sent a letter asking the county to pause evictions until the council’s next meeting on April 7; the Superior Court agreed, stopping all court proceedings, including evictions, under the Bay Area’s shelter in place. In the meantime, Councilmember Nikki Fortunato Bas also successfully called on the Alameda County Sheriff’s office to stop pursuing eviction enforcement. But she says a city-imposed moratorium is crucial. “I think it’s very important to look comprehensively,” Bas said. “Ensuring that eviction protections are strong, including moratoriums on evictions due to this pandemic; and ensuring that eviction proceedings that may already be in the works be halted, and that any court orders aren’t pursued.” Even San Francisco’s original legislation — which paused evictions for unpaid rent — left gaps: San Francisco Supervisor Dean Preston  introduced another measure that would bar no-fault evictions, like owner move-ins or renovations, after landlords ejected a “medically disabled Mission resident,” using the state’s Ellis Act, Mission Local reported. (“[S]ome landlords seem to be lacking a heart or a brain or both,” Preston wrote on Twitter.) He’s also struggling to ensure that the San Francisco court system doesn’t proceed with eviction trials. And although L.A. has ensured that the most precarious tenants are protected, Councilmember Mike Bonin told CityLab he’s planning to introduce a more sweeping suite of legislation at a future city council meeting. He’ll also ask for a freeze on evictions, but his legislation wouldn’t require any documentation of work disruption, and it would go through the city attorney. For those who can document coronavirus economic impacts, he’s seeking another more specific mandate that forces all landlords and residential mortgage-holders to allow tenants and homeowners up to 24 months to fulfill their payment obligations. And, to ensure that people won’t be stuck looking for housing amidst a downturn due to a poorly timed lease end date, Bonin says this draft of his legislation would require all residential landlords to extend expiring leases for three months after the emergency declaration is lifted. “In this crisis we have to do everything that we possibly can — everything we know we can do. And we need to push the envelope of what that is,” he said. “One or two weeks of lost income is the difference between [some workers] living indoors and them living outdoors.” Mom-and-pop landlords have expressed concerns that this new trend would have unintended consequences, pushing property owners behind on their own payments as they, too, grapple with the financial and health implications of the virus. In cities where eviction moratoriums are paired with foreclosure forgiveness, they have less to worry about. Cities like L.A. and Philadelphia are pursuing small business support funds. And San Francisco announced a moratorium on coronavirus-related evictions for small and medium businesses, a move permitted by California’s new executive order. “If this goes on, we’re going to have to look at using city, state and federal money to help keep people whole,” said Bonin. “We’ve got tenants, we’ve got workers, we’ve got small businesses, we’ve got landlords — it just becomes a self-perpetuating and constantly repeating cycle of harm.” To break out of this cycle, localities can’t be the only ones legislating on the ground, says Philadelphia’s Gym, who calls on President Donald Trump to adopt Sanders’ national housing relief directive and enact expanded paid leave, cash assistance, or a universal basic income on a temporary basis. “People are in crisis,” she said. “All of us need to make a broad-based appeal for state and federal relief that comes directly to states and large cities.”

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Zimbabwe and Namibia declared national emergencies on Tuesday as the coronavirus begins to spread in the region.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Talks between the U.K. and the European Union over their post-Brexit relationship have been delayed because of the coronavirus, adding to pressure on Prime Minister Boris Johnson to postpone Britain’s final break with the bloc at the year-end.

Want to receive this post in your inbox every day? Sign up for the Balance of Power newsletter, and follow Bloomberg Politics on Twitter and Facebook for more. As Europe and the U.S. follow China’s lead in imposing curbs on daily life to fight the coronavirus, Asia’s experience of the pandemic provides both hope and caution.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. said its blood plasma-derived therapy against coronavirus currently in development has the potential to be among the first approved treatments for the deadly pathogen.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Europe’s biggest industrial manufacturers from Volkswagen AG and Airbus SE to Daimler AG are taking unprecedented steps to idle plants across the region as the rapidly spreading coronavirus outbreak inflicts increasingly greater economic pain.

Visit any major business school these days, and you’ll find students like Juan Adorno. The 31-year-old former product development and strategy worker was drawn to the University of Vermont’s Grossman School of Business for the one-year sustainable innovation MBA it offers and the edge he felt it would give him in the workplace. “As environmental, social, and governance investing has increased in popularity and become so important for asset managers, it became a growing part of my world,” Adorno says. “I’m looking for an organization that is corporately socially responsible, that holds true to its mission, and has a sense of more than profit.” Responding to the demand from students like Adorno and commitments from companies and investors around diversity and sustainability, Harvard Business School, NYU Stern, Copenhagen Business School, and a clutch of other top universities now offer ESG-focused MBAs or individual classes on topics such as corporate social responsibility (CSR). But even as such coursework is being offered more widely, the people tapping the pool of graduates have yet to give adherence to ESG standards the same priority. In a  survey of MBA recruiters conducted by Bloomberg Businessweek last year, 1 in 4 said they valued a candidate’s problem-solving skills most. Following ESG standards was ranked last, with only 1 in every 500 recruiters saying it was the most important skill. It was ranked in the top five by recruiters 1.2% of the time. Employers rank in order the top 5 qualities they consider critical in graduates whom they hire

 Source: Bloomberg Businessweek Best B-Schools 2019 Survey of Recruiters
 Percentages show the number of times a quality is prioritized 1-5 in a survey  That means a new graduate hoping for a career in sustainable accounting or to land a CSR position in private industry is probably still going to need to emphasize more traditional expertise. For now, ESG seems to be just a nice-to-have skill for job candidates. “If I’m recruiting for my team, I want them to do the job I want them to do,” says Jean-Philippe Verdier of Verdier & Co. Corporate Advisory, which has recruited from Imperial College London and London Business School. “ESG is just one matter for me.” Business schools may also be turning to ESG because it’s an effective way to lure applicants. According to a Bloomberg Intelligence survey, 77% of millennials are interested in social-impact investing and ownership, more than double the proportion of baby boomers. “Business schools have to pay attention to their customers,” says Lee Mergy, co-founder of Galt & Co., a management consultancy firm that works with Fortune 250 companies. “Their customers are as much, if not more, the candidates applying to those schools, as they are the businesses trying to pull candidates from them.” Certainly those at HEC Paris feel strongly about ESG. When a manifesto was started 18 months ago, about 400 out of the school’s 1,000 grande école graduates signed it to declare that they would not work for a company that wasn’t engaged in reducing its ecological footprint. The number of signatories has since grown to more than 35,000 to include those outside HEC, which includes a sustainability and disruptive innovation track on its MBA, as well as a number of electives. Other schools have acted on similar demands: Harvard Business School developed an impact investing course in 2017, while New York University’s Stern School of Business in 2016 started the Center for Sustainable Business, run by Tensie Whelan, formerly of the Rainforest Alliance. As a Master in Sustainability grows more common, businesses may be able to better discern the exact skills, in the same way they do with a Master of Finance. At the moment, companies are struggling to evaluate them, says Rodolphe Durand, professor of strategy and business policy at HEC Paris. “These new competencies, these new themes, are not in their dashboard,” Durand says. “They don’t know how to assess or quantify candidates.” Durand recently met with a CAC 40-listed company in France, which said bonuses of executives and managers are tied to their ESG impact. Those firms are having their human-resources professionals developing ways to measure ESG capabilities, he says. Recruiters may have a role to play, too, in spurring firms to give a higher priority to ESG expertise, says Mary Francia, a recruiter with Odgers Berndtson who works with European business school INSEAD. “It’s my job to make sure a client realizes it should be on their checklist,” Francia says.

The World Bank is boosting its coronavirus response package by $2 billion with funds from the International Finance Corporation, its lender to the private sector. The IFC’s planned funds are in addition to the $12 billion announced March 3 by the bank, the world’s top development institution said in a statement. The assistance is aimed at supporting industry and employees impacted by the disease.

Amazon.com Inc. is prioritizing the stocking of household staples and medical supplies as it struggles to deal with a surge in demand for online orders from customers avoiding stores during the coronavirus pandemic. The world’s biggest online retailer said in a blog post updated on Tuesday morning that it was making the move “so we can more quickly receive, restock, and ship these products to customers.” The aim is to keep warehouses stocked with the items people are buying now -- toilet paper, bleach and sanitizing wipes -- so Amazon is temporarily not accepting shipments of non-essential goods like flat-screen televisions and toys. The Seattle-based company wants to be perceived as an indispensable service, which is hard to do when items are out of stock and customers have to wait days for orders to be delivered. The company is fine-tuning its operation to quickly deliver things people need right now, sacrificing sales from its deep inventory for the time being. As online orders spike, Amazon also is looking to hire 100,000 people willing to pick, pack and deliver orders as a pandemic rages. Already, at least five workers at warehouses in Spain and Italy have contracted the coronavirus, and those numbers could rise in the coming months as the disease spreads in Europe and the U.S. If enough workers get sick, Amazon could be forced to close some of its fulfillment centers, potentially putting its vaunted delivery machine in peril. In the meantime, Amazon is telling third-party sellers that it won’t accept shipments from them in other product categories through at least April 5. Amazon said it was taking a similar approach with the big brands it buys directly from. “We understand this is a change for our selling partners and appreciate their understanding as we temporarily prioritize these products for customers,” an Amazon spokesman said in an emailed statement. Products already on their way to Amazon warehouses will be accepted, he said. The new prioritization applies to restocking, not Amazon’s shipments of items already sitting on warehouse shelves. The change only limits products sold through Fulfillment by Amazon, a service through which online merchants pay Amazon to store, pack and ship their products sold on the site. Amazon’s marketplace merchants can continue to sell non-essential products, but they have to manage packing and shipping to customers on their own. ”There are going to be sellers who get hit hard, like people who have no way to ship outside of Fulfillment by Amazon,” said Will Tjernlund, an e-commerce consultant in Minneapolis who helps 30 brands sell on Amazon. “But it shouldn’t be the end of the world for too many people since there appears to be an end in sight.”

Australia’s Prime Minister Scott Morrison will announce tighter restrictions on indoor gatherings on Wedneday as the government moves to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Health Minister Greg Hunt told Sky News the national Cabinet discussed the measures late Tuesday with medical officials. Australia has already banned mass gatherings of 500 people or more, leading to a wave of sporting and cultural events being canceled.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The European Union is loosening its curbs on state handouts, allowing cash injections and other government support to thousands of companies hit by a virus-induced recession, according to draft guidelines the regulator plans to adopt this week.

The insatiable demand for dollars is causing disruptions in the global currency market. The Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index extended its six-session winning streak Tuesday to touch the highest level in three years. While the dollar pared some of its gains in Asia trading Wednesday, its recent surge has still sparked staggering moves in other currencies.

Hong Kong extended mandatory quarantines to more countries, issued a global travel advisory to residents and said it would keep some schools shut longer as the coronavirus continues to spread around the world. In a regular briefing on Tuesday, Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam detailed her government’s new measures as the virus triggered unprecedented travel restrictions and business closures across the U.S., Canada and Europe.

Food-service employees aboard the Diamond Princess hastened the spread of coronavirus on the stricken cruise ship, ultimately contributing to more than 700 cases, according to a government study. Although the first cases were detected among passengers, the virus spread to members of the crew, according to the study published Tuesday in the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report.

Central bankers in five key sub-Saharan African countries will meet on interest rates in the next 10 days as the focus turns to them for measures to shore up their economies that are expected to be hit by the novel coronavirus. Since their monetary policy committees last met, South Africa declared a national state of disaster, Ghana set aside the local-currency equivalent of $100 million to combat virus-driven contagion and Kenya’s central bank dropped charges on mobile-money transactions to curb the use of cash for hygiene reasons. Many governments have moved to restrict travel.

Illinois’s fiscal shortcomings are coming into focus as the economic fallout of the coronavirus pandemic ramps up. The yield-spread on the state’s 10-year bonds climbed to 197 basis points more than AAA-rated debt on March 13, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the highest since May 2018. The spread has eased to 179 basis points as of 11 a.m., still more than double the premium at the end of February.

Malaysia’s lockdown is the latest threat to a Singapore economy already reeling from the coronavirus outbreak. The city state relies heavily on its neighbor’s workers and food, and Malaysia’s move Monday night to ban all visitors and prevent residents from traveling overseas for about two weeks will choke off a key labor channel.

Argentina will suspend domestic flights and long-distance train and bus services in the country for five days to combat the coronavirus outbreak. From Friday, all public transportation will be shut down outside the Buenos Aires metro area. Limited transportation will continue in the capital region, with trains and buses only allowed to carry seated passengers.

South Africa extended a travel ban to all foreign nationals who have traveled through France and Switzerland in a bid to control the spread of the coronavirus.  The ban follows restrictions placed on the entry of foreigners who’d been to several other countries hard-hit by the disease, including the U.S., the U.K. and China.

Singapore’s government moved to assure residents it won’t run out of food or basic necessities, after neighboring Malaysia said it would halt travel abroad. The city-state’s residents “may have to make some adjustments to our choices in the short term,” however the country has “sufficient food supplies for all Singaporeans as long as all of us buy responsibly,” Minister for Trade and Industry Chan Chun Sing said in a Facebook post.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. France is ready to use the ultimate weapon to protect its biggest companies from the market turmoil set in motion by the coronavirus: nationalization.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Malaysia confirmed its first deaths from the new coronavirus after the country reported the highest number of infections in Southeast Asia.

Shopping online in some cases may be better for the environment. Large online retailers in the U.S. produce 17% fewer greenhouse gas emissions than traditional stores, according to a report from Generation Investment Management LLP, the sustainable fund manager set up by former Vice President Al Gore and David Blood, the ex-CEO of Goldman Sachs Asset Management.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Lloyds Banking Group Plc will delay some of its investments as the coronavirus disrupts daily life in the U.K., according to its chief executive.

Facebook Inc, Alphabet Inc.’s Google, Microsoft Corp., Twitter Inc. and Reddit said they are teaming up to provide accurate information about the coronavirus and the Covid-19 illness it causes. “We’re helping millions of people stay connected while also jointly combating fraud and misinformation about the virus, elevating authoritative content on our platforms, and sharing critical updates in coordination with government healthcare agencies around the world,” according to a joint statement from the companies issued Monday.

Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan convened officials and business leaders to decide on measures to support the economy and prevent the coronavirus outbreak from spreading, a day after the country reported its first death from the disease. “There will be serious economic consequences” since the coronavirus has virtually brought daily life to a standstill, Erdogan said. “We are facing the necessity to prevent the virus from spreading and keep alive production, trade and employment in the economy.”

The London Metal Exchange plans to temporarily suspend trading on its iconic open-outcry dealing floor for the first time since World War II as the U.K. tries to limit the spread of the coronavirus. The LME’s trading ring -- the last of its kind in Europe -- plays a key role in setting global benchmark prices for base metals including copper and aluminum. The switch to electronic price determination is currently planned for March 23. While the LME has tested the alternative system, it said members shouldn’t underestimate the risk of short-term market impacts from the change.

The premier of Canada’s most populous province declared a state of emergency to help fight the coronavirus as the number of cases spiked. Premier Doug Ford unveiled the “first stage” of C$300 million ($212 million) relief fund for the province, the heart of Canada’s financial and manufacturing sectors.

Blue Apron Holdings Inc.’s stock more than doubled this week as cities around the country are forcing restaurants to curtail operations and as panic-buying empties the shelves of the nation’s grocers. “With so many households practicing social distancing and remaining at home, getting fresh ingredients for at-home preparation holds appeal,” Bloomberg Intelligence senior analyst Jennifer Bartashus said.

The Federal Reserve unleashed two emergency lending programs on Tuesday to help keep credit flowing to the U.S. economy amid strain in financial markets that it blamed on the coronavirus pandemic. The central bank is using emergency authorities to establish a Commercial Paper Funding Facility with the approval of the Treasury secretary, according to a Fed statement on Tuesday. The Treasury will provide $10 billion of credit protection from its Exchange Stabilization Fund. Later in the day it announced a Primary Dealer Credit Facility, also with backing from Treasury.

Neiman Marcus Group Inc. is following the precautionary playbook of other retailers across the globe, temporarily closing all stores, including Bergdorf Goodman, in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. The luxury retailer closed operations at its Neiman Marcus, Bergdorf Goodman, and Last Call stores, effective Tuesday night, according to a statement. The stores will remain closed for the next two weeks, with a potential extension upon further evaluation of the situation, said the company.

Norm Hullinger was heading into work one day in October when he got a call that his company’s network was acting up. It was no simple glitch. Hackers had started freezing the data of Alphabroder, a sportswear distributor. They wanted more than $3 million to restore it. Grappling with whether to pay, Hullinger, the chief executive officer, embarked on a journey that’s increasingly familiar to law firms,  hospitals, and cities that have found themselves on the other end of  negotiations with ransomware criminals. Even as experts raise alarms about the spread and increasing sophistication of such attacks, incursions on companies such as Hullinger’s have remained almost entirely out of the public view. That’s likely because a private equity firm, Littlejohn & Co., owns the business. Since private equity firms rely on their reputations as savvy investors to woo pension funds, wealthy individuals, and other clients, they aren’t keen to publicly admit that they or one of their companies has been hit by a ransomware attack. “Most of the time with ransomware attacks, private equity firms don’t report it,” says Dan Burke, who heads the national cyber practice at insurance brokerage Woodruff Sawyer. “There’s under-reporting due to reputational damage.” According to more than a dozen experts in cybersecurity, private equity, and insurance, ransomware attackers see the companies in private equity portfolios as rich targets. After all, the owners have deep pockets. At the same time, they’ve generally bought the companies with the goal of raising profits, and this often results in lean cybersecurity operations. Best of all for the attackers, these people say, targets aren’t hard to find: Private equity firms themselves have detailed disclosure requirements, and when they acquire a company, they often announce it with a press release. “You’re telling attackers you’re going to inject a large amount of capital into a company that presumably has valuable intellectual property,” says Mike O’Malley, vice president at Radware, a cybersecurity firm, of the buyout announcements. “It’s like giving them a road map to the pot of gold.” There are no statistics to show that private equity companies are hit more often than others. But the industry has been victim of a growing number of targeted and increasingly sophisticated attacks. “The private equity community as a whole is very concerned,” says Gregory Garrett, head of cybersecurity at BDO Digital, a technology advisory firm. He recently gave a talk on the subject to about 40 industry executives at a large private equity firm on New York’s Park Avenue that he declined to identify. “The major banks have invested an extraordinary amount of money in hardware, software, and training,” he says. “The private equity firms have not.” Ransomware attackers are moving away from the scattershot “spray and pray” attacks on many organizations at once and focusing more on “big game” that promise bigger paydays, according to ransomware experts. Attackers may explore company networks for weeks or months before encrypting data. They’ve also started threatening to make company data public unless payments are made, either to bolster the ransom demand or as a second part of the scam. These criminal rings also appear to search out operational details, such as who approves large payments or names of key employees, that can help them penetrate a network—just the sorts of specifics that private equity firms, as registered investment advisers, are required to file. Some experts who respond to ransomware crises say they’ve seen attacks apparently triggered by acquisition announcements. Austin Berglas of the cybersecurity firm BlueVoyant says he’s helped respond in recent months to attacks on five private equity portfolio companies, including ones focused on cosmetics, e-commerce, technology, and finance. While the FBI strongly advises against paying ransom, many companies do it anyway—perhaps 50% to 85% of those who call in experts to handle the attacks, according to several of the experts, including ones summoned to negotiate with attackers. Many private equity companies are paying for cyber insurance policies that cover ransomware attacks, which can include ransom payments and the cost of restoring operations. Insurance brokerage Aon Plc has arranged cyber insurance policies for the portfolio companies of more than 20 private equity firms, says Christian Hoffman, an executive at the firm. To get coverage, private equity firms have to show their cyber defenses are strong, Hoffman says. “Private equity firms are taking cyber and security very seriously,” he says. Some of the attacks have delayed or killed private equity deals. Aon executive Eric Friedberg described two $1 billion dollar-plus acquisitions that were delayed for a month or more by ransomware attacks while the private equity firms evaluated the cyber-security risks of the companies they were selling. Two years ago, an e-commerce company that had been in business for several years was close to being acquired by a private equity firm when ransomware hackers struck. The attack spanned five days. Spooked by the computer security lapses the attack had exposed, the private equity suitors withdrew their buyout offer, according to Chris Duvall, a senior director at the Chertoff Group, who declined to identify the firms. “Regardless of whether you pay or not, you have to rebuild your network,” says Charles Carmakal, a FireEye vice president who leads a team that has responded to more than 1,000 security breaches. “You have to remove back doors. If an attacker wanted, they could come back in right away and redeploy ransomware.” Not all ransomware attacks end up with companies resuming normal operations. Last August, Denver-based printing firm Colorado Timberline announced on its Facebook page that its computers had been infected. The attack came two years after private equity firms Frontenac and Charter Oak Equity acquired the company. “We have recently been plagued by several IT events, unfortunately we were unable to overcome the most recent ransomware attack,” its website stated. The company, with estimated revenues of about $23 million and 100 employees, closed. Frontenac, which declined to comment, and Charter Oak Equity, which did not respond to requests for comment, were left to share proceeds of a liquidation sale with other stakeholders. Details about the attack on Alphabroder emerged after Hullinger discussed it at a November industry conference. Video of his comments was posted on YouTube. In those remarks, he said he understood within hours that his company’s network, which processes some 40,000 orders a day, faced a ransomware attack. The firm’s cyberinsurer introduced forensics experts and negotiators who were on the job within hours. (Alphabroder and Littlejohn declined to comment, as did Hullinger.) The negotiators managed to cut the Russian-speaking criminals’ initial $3.2 million ransom roughly in half. “I’m not the type of person where, if someone in the street says ‘Give me your wallet,’ I’m going to hand it over,” Hullinger told conference participants. But he agreed to pay. The day after the attack, Alphabroder received a decryption key. The company was back working at full speed two days after the attack.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Germany’s Federal Administrative Court said Tuesday that is will close for most business until at least April 19 after several employees were infected with the coronavirus.

Shareholder meetings are going virtual as companies adapt their mandatory annual gatherings to the coronavirus.  Corporate proxy season is already underway, with companies filing annual statements ahead of thousands of planned general meetings stretching from April to July. Most firms are required by law to hold gatherings to approve corporate policies. In recent years, meetings at companies like Exxon Mobil Corp., Wells Fargo & Co. and Facebook Inc. have become popular for activists urging action on climate change and social responsibility.

Venezuela’s President Nicolas Maduro said the entire country will enter a quarantine on Tuesday after the number of coronavirus cases almost doubled to 33. “We are preparing for the gravest situation we’ve ever faced before,” Maduro said in televised comments from the presidential palace. “As of tomorrow, all of the country will enter a quarantine. It is indispensable and necessary, and it is the answer.”

Just one day to digest everything. That’s all David Bailin, chief investment officer of Citigroup Inc.’s private bank, wanted after last week. Saturday would be eaten up by writing about the markets, but on Sunday, he’d finally be able to take a deep breath and reflect on how much the world had changed in such a short time.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Last week, Scott Kirby, the president of United Airlines Holdings Inc., described a “dire scenario” in which monthly sales would plunge 70% until the start of June, then 60% that month and 40% in July and August.

An Israeli technology company, which has gained notoriety for the spyware it sells, has developed a new product it says has the ability to track the spread of the coronavirus. NSO Group Ltd.’s product analyzes huge volumes of data to map people’s movements to identify who they’ve come in contact with, which can then be used to stop the spread of infection, according to a person familiar with the matter.

Denmark will ban gatherings larger than 10 people and will close the country’s restaurants and bars to stop the spread of the coronavirus. The government will start talks with the opposition on additional financial aid to the affected companies, Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen said in briefing on Tuesday in Copenhagen.

The Federal Reserve on Tuesday opened an emergency lending program for primary dealers in yet another step aimed at keeping cash flowing into a U.S. economy shuddering under the impact of the coronavirus pandemic. The Primary Dealer Credit Facility “will offer overnight and term funding with maturities up to 90 days and will be available on March 20, 2020,” the central bank said in a statement.

As global oil benchmarks crash below $25 a barrel, some crude from Canada is already trading below $10 for the first time ever. Heavy Canadian crude, which typically trades at a discount to U.S. West Texas Intermediate oil, is tumbling after the country’s oil-sands producers were forced to delay maintenance, pushing more supply into the market at the worst possible time.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Investor confidence in the German economy plummeted to levels last seen during the European debt crisis as the rapid spread of the coronavirus pandemic halts economic activity.

Mexico’s top bankers are on high alert as a central bank official tested positive for Covid 19 after attending a conference last week in the beach resort of Acapulco. Banxico said in a statement that an employee had tested positive for the virus but that no board member has presented symptoms. A bank spokesperson declined to confirm if the person had been at the conference, saying it was a private matter.

Authorities in southern California and Brooklyn, New York, are taking steps to reduce jail populations, including by letting some inmates out early, as the coronavirus spreads. The sheriff’s office in San Diego County is preparing to release an unspecified number of inmates early to free up beds for quarantine needs, a spokesman for the agency said late Monday, confirming earlier media reports.

Follow Bloomberg on LINE messenger for all the business news and analysis you need. Hong Kong lost its title as the world’s freest economy to Singapore for the first time since 1995 in a global survey, as social unrest and uncertainties rattled its reputation as a global financial hub.

The Federal Reserve and other Wall Street regulators are considering changes to leverage limits and accounting rules as they look for ways to free up bank capital in response to the coronavirus crisis, according to three people familiar with the talks. One easily achievable option would be to further delay the impact of a recent accounting rule change for “current expected credit losses,” or CECL. The agencies are discussing what can be done with CECL to ease pressure on banks, including a likely lengthening of its phase-in period, said the people, who requested anonymity because no decisions have yet been announced.

Crypto entrepreneurs Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss are launching a marketplace for nifties, the tradable digital art that can sell for thousands of dollars. Nifty Gateway, a startup that the Winklevoss’s Gemini Trust Co. bought last year, is debuting a website Tuesday where consumers will be able to buy and sell digital collectibles from artists including Michael Kagan and Lyle Owerko. Kagan, known for his space exploration-themed work, has collaborated with singer Pharrell Williams on t-shirt designs and recently sold a work through Christie’s for $40,000. Works of photographer Owerko have graced the cover of Time magazine and been collected by the likes of Beyonce. Niftygateway.com will also sell a collection of digital art from MMA fighter Cris Cyborg.

A rush by worried South African shoppers to stock up on food and vital supplies spurred sharp gains in Johannesburg retail stocks Tuesday, in the wake of President Cyril Ramaphosa declaring a national disaster because of the coronavirus outbreak. Shoprite Holdings Ltd., Africa’s largest grocer, jumped 13% to be among the best-performing stocks. Woolworths Holdings Ltd., a seller of high-end specialty foods, gained 7.1%. Pick n Pay Stores Ltd. rose 11%.

Four members of the Brooklyn Nets basketball team, including superstar Kevin Durant, have tested positive for the coronavirus, just days after the NBA halted play to help contain the outbreak. Durant told the Athletic that he’s feeling fine after learning of the test result. Earlier Tuesday, the team announced one of the four unidentified players had exhibited symptoms of coronavirus. All four are isolated and under the care of team doctors. Kevin Durant Photographer: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg The Nets tested the team after returning from a road trip to San Francisco, and the results came back Tuesday, according to a person familiar with the situation. The team paid a private company to conduct the tests, the person said. One player woke up with some aches on Tuesday, but the rest have experienced no symptoms. The Nets are notifying anyone who has had known contact with the players, including recent opponents, and is working with state and local health authorities. The NBA stopped play last week to help prevent the spread of the virus, and Tuesday’s announcement confirmed that players are at risk. The rest of the team and members of the traveling party are being asked to isolate, monitor their health and maintain constant communication with team doctors. “The health of our players and staff is of the highest priority to the organization, and the team is doing everything within its power to ensure that those affected receive the best care possible,” the team said in a statement. The NBA suspended play after a member of the Utah Jazz tested positive. Since then, almost all global sports have ceased play. At least seven NBA players have tested positive, the New York Times said Tuesday.

For a fresh perspective on the stories that matter for Australian business and politics, sign up for our new weekly newsletter. National Australia Bank Ltd. has evacuated its main Melbourne office after an employee tested positive for the coronavirus, the latest disruption to the financial industry.

Led Zeppelin’s win in a copyright infringement lawsuit over the opening chords of “Stairway to Heaven” is providing a boost to other songwriters and producers fighting similar allegations. Katy Perry on Tuesday had a $2.8 million jury verdict thrown out that had found she ripped off elements of Christian rapper Flame’s 2008 track in her hit “Dark Horse.” The decision is a victory for songwriters worried about a growing risk of constant legal battles over their work.

Vietnam’s government is proposing a suspension of visas to travelers from all countries for two weeks due to the spread of the novel coronavirus, according to a posting on the website of the Hanoi’s People Committee. Vietnam on Sunday suspended tourist visas for travelers who had been in the United Kingdom, Northern Ireland and Schengen countries 14 days prior to their planned arrival.

Oil is ensnared in such a crisis that Wednesday’s 24% plunge in New York wasn’t even its worst day this month. Futures are now at the lowest level in almost two decades after Saudi Arabia signaled it’s doubling down on a price war with Russia just as demand evaporates. Prices dropped below $25 a barrel for the first time since 2003 in London and tumbled 24% in New York as the kingdom vowed to keep producing at a record high “over the coming months.”

A hedge fund founded by former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. traders to wager on volatility in stock prices is winding down after the recent market turmoil. Malachite Capital Management, a New York-based firm that oversees about $600 million, plans to dissolve its funds, the firm said in a statement Tuesday, citing extreme adverse market conditions of recent weeks. The firm, founded by ex-Goldman Sachs traders Jacob Weinig and Joe Aiken, had received margin calls from counterparties including BNP Paribas SA after its trades went awry, people familiar with the matter said.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. A Covid-19 patient in Melbourne underwent a barrage of tests to map her broad range of immune responses to the coronavirus, providing clues about the body’s ability to battle the pneumonia-causing pathogen.

Tenova SpA, a unit of the Italian billionaire Paolo Rocca’s Techint Group, has appointed legal and forensic-accountancy firms to assess its dealings with South Africa’s Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd. after identifying payments that caused the company “concern.” A contract between the mining and manufacturing-services provider and state-owned Eskom is one of a number of agreements, including ones frm Alstom SA and WSP Global Inc., that are being scrutinized by South Africa’s Special Investigating Unit. Tenova was hired in 2010 to carry out work on Eskom’s Kusile power plant, which it handled through a division called Tenova Mining and Minerals South Africa.

The Trump administration is considering a plan to allow homeowners whose income was cut by the coronavirus to delay mortgage payments. Still to be decided is a mechanism for borrowers to catch up. The government also will have to determine how to advance money to mortgage servicers so that investors in mortgage-backed securities get their guaranteed payments. “Tens of billions” in short-term financing may be needed, said Michael Fratantoni, chief economist at the Mortgage Bankers Association. Other real estate-related trade groups also are involved in the discussions.

Waymo is pausing most operations in Arizona and California in response to the coronavirus outbreak, the company announced early Tuesday. Alphabet’s self-driving car unit sent a message to riders saying that all trips in the Phoenix area with safety drivers in the front would cease, “in the interest of the health and safety of our riders.” Most of Waymo’s vehicles  in Phoenix still operate with safety drivers.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The International Olympic Committee remains committed to holding the Tokyo Olympics this year and is confident steps taken around the world will help contain the novel coronavirus, but the group is now talking in more cautious terms about the potential fallout from the pandemic. “With more than four months to go before the games there is no need for any drastic decisions at this stage,” the IOC said Tuesday in a statement. “Any speculation at this moment would be counterproductive.” Instead of harsh denials and refusals to acknowledge the games could be in jeopardy, the IOC now says it is an “unprecedented situation,” one that is “changing day by day.” Any big decision -- to hold, cancel or postpone the games -- will come with the health and well-being of the athletes as the top priority, the IOC said. “The IOC’s decision will not be determined by financial interests,” the committee said. “Thanks to its risk management policies and insurance it will in any case be able to continue its operations and accomplish its mission to organize the Olympic Games.” The IOC held a conference call Tuesday with sports federations around the world. In the coming days, it will hold talks with with national teams, like Team USA, athlete representatives and the International Paralympic Committee. Tuesday’s announcement came shortly after Tokyo’s Olympic torch relay was being modified in order to limit large gatherings in accordance with guidance issued by the World Health Organization. Read more: Will Coronavirus Take Out the 2020 Tokyo Olympics?: QuickTake — With assistance by Eben Novy-Williams

The Dutch government has announced a rescue package designed to shield companies from the impact of the coronavirus that Finance Minister Wopke Hoekstra said is unlimited but will likely cost tens of billions of euros. The government is working on eight measures, including a fund that makes it easier for firms to request compensation for lost revenues and helps them pay wages, Hoekstra said Tuesday at a news conference. Self-employed people will also have access to government cash if they earn less than the minimum wage.

HSBC Holdings Plc’s search for a new chief ended where it began: with its caretaker CEO Noel Quinn. The bank on Tuesday said Quinn would become its permanent boss, after seven months as interim leader. The board had struggled to secure an external candidate while trying to respond to an increasingly treacherous global economy that’s been rocked by the impact of coronavirus.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Remember Brexit? Hundreds of trade negotiators from the U.K. and European Union were due to meet in London on Wednesday to hammer out a trade deal.

Back in October 2009, when fears about the H1N1 “swine flu” pandemic were at a crisis point in the U.S., Congress passed emergency legislation to boost the reach of the safety net. The law authorized federal food aid benefits to replace free or reduced-price school lunches for eligible children whose schools were closed for more than five consecutive days. More than 700 schools closed across the U.S. during the course of that crisis, affecting nearly 370,000 students. Then as now, free or reduced-price school meals were a crucial source of food for children in low-income homes. By shifting the delivery of this aid from schools to food stamps through the Pandemic Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or P-SNAP, lawmakers tried to avert a knock-on hunger crisis spurred by the disaster response. In the end, P-SNAP benefits were never used. School closures were brief, not all the schools that closed relied heavily on food stamps, and few districts were aware of P-SNAP’s existence. Now that the nation is facing a much more severe pandemic, however, P-SNAP’s big moment may be at hand. After U.S. Agriculture Secretary Sonny Purdue called on Congress to reboot P-SNAP as part of the government’s unfolding response to the coronavirus crisis, the House passed a bill on Saturday that would do exactly that. But some, including Republicans in the Senate, say the bill doesn’t go far enough. Helping kids get the food that they rely on schools to provide is just one of the fixes that the federal government needs to implement in order to stave off hunger as jobs evaporate, experts say. In the past, the government has taken action to furnish even more food aid in response to economic and public-health disasters. The coronavirus crisis is staggering the nation with both at once. For weeks, people who use the federal government’s regular Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program have been worrying about how the pandemic will affect their access to groceries. Unlike those American households making huge supermarket hauls in order to hunker down for the duration, families who receive monthly financial infusions from SNAP can only buy so much food at a time. Stocking up isn’t really an option, even as state and local authorities urge residents to do just that. “I think, how?” says Angela Caldwell, a resident of Apache, Oklahoma. She receives SNAP aid for her family of four, which is currently five, since her oldest daughter recently moved back in. “If the funds aren’t made available for you [to last] for two or three months, then how are we supposed to do that?” Even under the best of circumstances, SNAP benefits fail to cover the price of meals in 99 percent of U.S. counties. Feeding her three teenagers is hard enough already, Caldwell says, on the $645 she receives each month in food aid. Her options otherwise are limited: There are food pantries, plus a take-what-you-need drop-off outside the local flower shop. She says there’s no way for her to stock up for an extended hibernation. Plus, there are existing hurdles to receiving charity. In Lawton, Oklahoma, Katlynn Carlisle and her extended family rely on food aid through a single SNAP account. She says that some community food pantries require people to show identification and a current utility bill in order to get help, but none of the family members in her house is on the utility bill; they pay the landlord. That’s just one example of the administrative burden that makes it harder for her family members to get food. “We’re just stressing on stocking up on food. That’s our biggest problem right now,” says Carlisle, who at 21 isn’t old enough to apply for SNAP aid on her own. Because of the way the benefits are calculated — by income, family size, and work hours — her household of extended family members receives about $300 per month. “We’re talking about getting some Lysol to disinfect everything and keep everyone inside, but it’s stressful when you’re only getting $300 a month, for a family of eight people.” Coronavirus is heightening many of these longstanding vulnerabilities. Formal and informal safety nets alike are under incredible strain now, and to make sure families don’t go without food, lawmakers need to address both the supply and distribution of aid, says Elaine Waxman, a senior fellow at the Urban Institute. Food banks are already seeing a dip in resources and volunteers. Many of the people who staff food pantries are retirees who are especially vulnerable to Covid-19 infections. “You don’t want them on the front lines,” Waxman says. The Families First Coronavirus Response Act, which the House passed on Saturday and the Senate is currently debating, boosts food aid in several ways. The bill expands support for pregnant women and postpartum mothers under the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women Infants and Children, known as WIC. The bill also activates the Emergency Food Assistance Program (TEFAP) to bolster resources at food banks. And it authorizes the USDA to approve P-SNAP or Pandemic Electronic Benefit Transfer (P-EBT) plans set by the states. Yet the response has to go further, according to Kathy Fisher, policy director at the Greater Philadelphia Coalition Against Hunger. She lists SNAP as the nation’s first defense against hunger, with food banks and charity plugging holes or serving the need for families whose benefits run short. Coronavirus both hampers the ability of local food banks to do this necessary work and greatly expands the number of people who may soon need it. “There’s a whole secondary layer of responders and no one know who will be able to do that stuff and who’s not,” Fisher says. The nation’s food banking network is innovative and familiar with dealing with crises, according to Waxman. The Feeding America network can reach every county in the nation with food and other necessities in a crisis. After the devastating hurricanes of Harvey, Maria, and Irma in 2017, for example, Feeding America backstopped 30 affected food banks to deliver some 100 million pounds of food, water, and emergency supplies. Typically, though, the crisis is a natural disaster that hits a limited area. In those situations, other non-affected food banks, faith groups, and nonprofits can step up to fill the need. There are other things the government can and should try in order to bolster the safety net now. Anything to cut administrative burden — especially work requirements — is a must, Waxman says. As with library access increasingly restricted across the country, whatever the government can do to make information and services available by phone is important, she adds. Another immediate option to boost the reach of food aid would be to authorize online purchases via SNAP nationwide. Alabama, Iowa, New York, Oregon and Washington have an ongoing pilot program that allows SNAP benefit users to spend their food stamps online from a limited number of grocers (Amazon, Walmart, ShopRite, and Wright’s Markets). This would be a big shift for SNAP: Not all states even allow participants to apply for benefits online. Given the disparities in access to the internet, such a program alone wouldn’t support every household in a food desert — but it’s a fix that could expand options for many. “Other than the Great Recession, we haven’t been tested with an across-the-board quick need,” Waxman says. “We certainly saw strategies during the Great Recession that were helpful. We just need to activate them very quickly. I hope we don’t get bogged down in ideological debates.” To that end, the federal government would need to adjust its eligibility criteria to make sure that low-income families don’t suffer. Only last week, the USDA was still pushing forward a rule that would restrict the ability of states to provide waivers for work requirements under SNAP. The rule, which the USDA itself estimated would force some 700,000 people off benefits, was blocked on Friday by a federal judge, who deemed it “arbitrary and capricious.” “Especially now, as a global pandemic poses widespread health risks, guaranteeing that government officials at both the federal and state levels have flexibility to address the nutritional needs of residents and ensure their well-being through programs like SNAP is essential,” wrote D.C. District Court Judge Beryl Howell. Those work requirements still stand, however, and while states can continue to ask for waivers for these requirements, not all states currently do. In states that don’t get on board with waivers, workers put out of work by the coronavirus pandemic will have a hard time showing enough hours to meet the threshold. Having so many inscrutable local standards for eligibility is a hurdle to food aid. Right now it’s an open question whether a no-strings-attached check from the Treasury, like the $1,000 suggested by Utah Senator Mitt Romney, will count as income against SNAP aid. “Food security should be at the top of every [coronavirus] briefing,” Waxman says. “If you put some of these things in place nationwide, like the increase in benefits, then you’re dealing with a uniform set of messages, and you don’t have to figure it out based on where you live.” There’s a great deal that the government can do now in order to make it easier for households to apply for, receive and use federal food benefits. Advocates have been calling for some of these reforms for years. Now there’s a very urgent need to make them happen sooner rather than later. “It’s low-income people who have the least margin for error,” Fisher says. “If they have to run to the corner store for food, that’s twice as expensive. There’s not a lot of wiggle room when you’re on a limited budget.”

Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter South Africa stepped up travel bans as the coronavirus continued to spread at a rapid pace and the country confirmed more instances of local transmission.

A key senator is endorsing the outlines of a U.S. airline industry proposal for the government to provide as much as $58 billion in grants and loans after concerns over the spread of the coronavirus has rocked the industry. Senator Roger Wicker, the Mississippi Republican who is chairman of the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, on Monday said airlines are a top concern. He spoke after a meeting Majority Leader Mitch McConnell other Senate leaders.

Platinum and gold mines in South Africa, which together make up the world’s biggest precious metals industry, are gearing up to try and minimize a local outbreak of the coronavirus that could disrupt operations where hundreds of thousands of people work in close proximity. Companies including Anglo American Platinum Ltd. and Sibanye Stillwater Ltd. are preparing a range of measures, from checking the temperature of workers before they enter narrow elevators to descend up to 2.4 miles underground to encouraging employees to find out their HIV status. They’re also distributing flu shots and changing the way statutory medical examinations are done.

The Treasury market buckled Tuesday at the prospect of a flood of U.S. spending to fend off an economic nightmare. Yields at the long end of the curve shot higher on Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin’s proposal for a $1.2 trillion stimulus package. Rates on 10- and 30-year bonds shot up more than 36 basis points, their biggest one-day increases since 1982, while an iShares ETF tracking Treasuries maturing in 20 or more years sank a record 6.7%. The U.S. 10-year yield, the world’s borrowing benchmark, is now more than 70 basis points above the record low set last week.

Canadian stocks gained as Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said his government will roll out a “significant” fiscal stimulus package Wednesday in a bid to shield Canada’s economy from tumbling into a recession. The S&P/TSX Composite rose 2.6% at 12,685.21 in Toronto. The move follows the previous session’s decrease of 9.9%. Materials shares rallied alongside gold on mounting speculation that central banks including the Federal Reserve will take more action to quell market anxiety. Seven of eleven sectors rose Tuesday.

The International Monetary Fund said that it can’t consider Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro’s request for $5 billion to deal with the coronavirus pandemic because his government isn’t recognized by the international community. “Unfortunately, the fund is not in a position to consider this request,” an IMF spokesperson said. “As we have mentioned before, IMF engagement with member countries is predicated on official government recognition by the international community, as reflected in the IMF’s membership. There is no clarity on recognition at this time.”

Marriott International Inc. has started to furlough hotel staff in an effort that could affect tens of thousands of employees. A spokeswoman for the company, which employs roughly 130,000 associates across its managed hotels, said the workers would keep health benefits for now. The company is shuttering some hotels and needs fewer employees at the properties that remain open, she said.

Ohio Governor Mike DeWine invoked a health emergency to close the polls in the state’s primary on Tuesday, after a judge rejected his recommendation to postpone voting because of the coronavirus threat. Polls were set to open at 6:30 a.m., but late Monday the state’s health director, Amy Acton, issued an order closing them. DeWine said in a statement that allowing voting to proceed would “force poll workers and voters to place themselves at an unacceptable health risk.”

Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said his government will roll out a “significant” fiscal stimulus package Wednesday in a bid to shield Canada’s economy from tumbling into a recession. In his second televised address from outside his residence in as many days, Trudeau said the plan will include economic support for individual Canadians and businesses affected by the coronavirus pandemic. He added that lawmakers could be recalled briefly to enact changes to unemployment benefits.

A fearful federal jury issued a “sham” verdict in less than eight hours because it feared deliberating during the coronavirus outbreak, according to a lawyer for a Los Angeles businessman convicted of leading a biofuel conspiracy with a Utah polygamist group. It may be the first instance of a U.S. defendant claiming that the coronavirus pandemic interfered with a criminal verdict. The outbreak has halted the murder trial of New York real-estate heir Robert Durst, led to a four-month delay in the trial of former Goldman Sachs banker Roger Ng and was cited in a trade-secrets case against Huawei Technologies Co.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. European governments are ensuring that smokers and vapers can keep up their habits while they hunker down at home in lockdowns to stem the spread of coronavirus.

Finablr Plc, the embattled owner of foreign-exchange businesses including Travelex Holdings Ltd., said it hired an adviser to prepare for potential insolvency proceedings. The London-listed firm is working with an unidentified accounting firm on “rapid contingency planning,” according to a regulatory filing Tuesday. It’s taking the action “with a view to maximizing value in the group,” Finablr said in the filing.

The coronavirus appeared to be depressing in-person turnout in states persisting in holding primary elections on Tuesday, changing the nature of what had been a high-interest 2020 Democratic election. But officials said they hoped early and mail-in balloting would make up the difference. A dramatic overnight court fight ended with Ohio postponing its primary until June, but Arizona, Florida and Illinois held their primaries as scheduled on Tuesday.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley economists joined the rush on Wall Street to declare that the coronavirus has triggered a global recession, with the debate now focusing on its likely length and depth.A day after President Donald Trump conceded the U.S. slump alone is set to be “a bad one,” economists threw away their forecasts that the world could avoid tumbling into recession for the first time since the financial crisis.

Amazon.com Inc. has slashed the amount of money it spends on Google advertising in recent days, a potential blow to the search giant’s revenue at an already-unstable time.The e-commerce company generally buys Google ads to funnel web shoppers to its online store. But since March 11, Amazon has cut back drastically across nearly all categories, according to data collected by Tinuiti Inc., a marketing agency that handles about $1.5 billion a year in spending for various advertisers. “Amazon has significantly pulled back in Google Shopping and text ads,” said Andy Taylor, Tinuiti’s director of research. In Google keyword auctions, Amazon is still bidding “lightly” against some advertisers, but it has “disappeared as a competitor altogether for others,” he added.“While we don’t comment on individual customers, it’s not unusual for advertisers to adjust their campaigns at any time for any number of reasons,” a Google spokesperson said. An Amazon spokesperson did not return a request for comment.

Massive price jumps. Shaky liquidity. Solvency concern on everyone’s mind. In March 2020, the scariest traits of the equity and credit markets have begun to merge. Traditional correlations are fading as lockstep moves between the two assets tighten. Stocks that had once taken their cue from the Treasuries, rising when they fell, have become tied at the hip with a more volatile partner, high-yield corporate bonds. The average hourly correlation -- a gauge of how much the two securities swing in tandem -- has been above 0.8 for equities and junk over the past five sessions, where 1 is lockstep moves. For stocks and government debt, the negative correlation is only -0.4.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Israel approved the use of tracking technology developed to combat terrorism to retrace the movements of coronavirus patients and people they’ve encountered, a controversial step in the country’s fight against the fast-spreading illness.

A global run on the U.S. dollar triggered by the coronavirus pandemic is once again prompting the Federal Reserve to step in as the lender of last resort for investors and companies scrambling for dollars. The Fed enhanced the existing dollar-liquidity swaps it offers foreign central banks and established new ones as part of sweeping emergency measures unleashed to ease a shortage of greenbacks. The idea is to help companies seeking to either raise cash or repay loans and alleviate pressure on currency markets. First used extensively during the 2007-2008 financial crisis, they’re temporary lending facilities that allow central banks around the world to borrow dollars from the Fed in exchange for an equivalent amount of their local currencies. On March 15, the Fed and five major central banks, including those in the euro zone and Japan, said they’d activate the program to ease a squeeze as demand for the dollar surged. They subsequently increased the frequency of seven-day maturity operations to daily from weekly. The Fed also lowered the rate and added a longer maturity. Then it expanded the swap line to nine other central banks, including Australia and Brazil, bringing the total to 14. And then at the end of March it allowed foreign central banks to swap any Treasuries securities they hold for cash.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The U.K.’s National Health Service is building up stocks of mechanical ventilators and canceling all non-urgent operations in an attempt to free health professionals to focus on those infected with the coronavirus as the pandemic spreads.

The contest to acquire Tegna Inc. is heating up again. Najafi Cos., a private equity firm, is teaming up with Trinity Broadcasting Network, which calls itself the world’s largest faith-based broadcaster, to make a bid for the TV-station owner. They’re offering about $20 a share in cash for Tegna, according to a statement from the suitors on Tuesday.

Scented candles may be all the rage, but the ritualistic nature of incense makes it a better tool for achieving a Zen-like state. At least, that’s the thought behind the sophisticated scents of Cinnamon Projects, created by Andrew Cinnamon and his husband, Charlie Stackhouse. When they were asked by the interiors studio Apparatus to collaborate on a stick to coincide with a furniture release called Interlude, the duo doubled down on the musical theme and conjured the smell of a violin case. The fragrance is a mix of frankincense (to give it leathery notes), iris and tuberose (to reference the silk-velvet lining), and rosin and spruce wood (to mimic the instrument itself). A svelte package holds 25 sticks that have a burn time of 25 to 30 minutes each. THE COMPETITION • Design studio Commune has produced a $32 incense pack with Kyoto-based Keijirou Hayashi, whose family’s craft goes back 180 years. The sandalwood sticks burn quickly without the sometimes overly sweet odor the wood is often chided for. • Beckoning Spring ($52 for 35 sticks) from the 300-year-old Japanese brand Shoyeido is pressed directly into the shape of a stick instead of being formed around a piece of bamboo—giving its combo of clove, patchouli, and camphor more room to shine. • Lisn, founded in 1989 as a Shoyeido offshoot, creates sticks ($54 for 10) that, at less than 3 inches long, are a microdose of bliss. The brand is also collaborating on a collection with the Mitsui hotel in Kyoto, which opens in summer. THE CASE That Nag Champa you burned in college left a persistent aroma for a reason: The sticks are made from bamboo wood. Interlude, on the other hand, is handmade in Japan with charcoal, which allows more of the actual ingredients to get their due. The earthy frankincense is leavened by the floral notes, particularly the tuberose, known for its clean, gardenia-like smell. Plus, because there’s no wood core, the sticks produce considerably less smoke, so you can clear your headspace without choking like a tourist in a Buddhist monastery. $40

Taiwan scrambled jets to warn off Chinese J-11 fighters and other planes flying into the waters southwest of the island in exercises around 7 p.m. Monday, according to a statement on the Taiwan Defense Ministry’s facebook page. Link to statement: https://www.facebook.com/MilitarySpokesman/posts/2992624334134198

Follow us  @middleeast for more news on the region. Yemen’s Houthi rebels said they’ve seized control of a strategic province bordering Saudi Arabia, freeing them to concentrate on capturing an energy-rich area nearby.













The Democratic National Committee and Democratic Party of Wisconsin filed a lawsuit to extend a deadline for voter registration and mailing absentee ballots for the state’s April 7 primary in response to the coronavirus outbreak.Wednesday is the deadline for online and mail-in voter registration in Wisconsin, and the lawsuit seeks to extend it to April 3, according to a release. The suit also asks state election officials to allow more time for mailing in absentee ballots while suspending identification requirements to register and request absentee ballots for the duration of the outbreak.“By implementing these measures, the state can ensure that Wisconsinites’ right to vote is not infringed upon during this extraordinary and unprecedented time,” the DNC and state party said.Five states have already delayed their primaries because of the outbreak, and DNC Chairman Tom Perez has urged states that have yet to hold their vote to expand vote-by-mail and absentee voting options.In Ohio, where state officials invoked a health emergency to close the polls on Tuesday, the state Democratic Party has asked the Ohio Supreme Court to prevent the state from setting a new primary date on June 2 and to order that anyone who has not yet voted be allowed to cast an absentee ballot with no in-person voting. Former Massachusetts Governor Bill Weld has dropped his longshot bid to challenge President Donald Trump for the Republican nomination.

From funding stresses to headaches about trading from home, the Wall Street worry list is a long one right now. One item is creeping up that list fast: Unreliable havens. Stocks tumbled anew on Wednesday as the turmoil sparked by the coronavirus continued to build. The S&P 500 Index slumped more than 5% at the open, almost erasing a bounce from a day earlier as it tracked losses in both Asia and Europe. But the most eye-catching moves were in the bond market. European government obligations including bunds tumbled at the same time as stocks in the region. Treasuries fluctuated, threatening to extend their decline a day after the biggest yield jump for 10-year U.S. bonds since 1982. A similar dynamic took hold earlier in Asia. The synchronized drop is not something that’s supposed to happen, and it’s a threat to classic diversification strategies where bonds are used to hedge stock declines. To add insult to injury, gold -- a haven for centuries -- is also down in Wednesday trading. “The worst outcome at the moment is there’s nowhere to hide -- your gold is falling, your equities are falling, your bonds are falling,” said Klaudius Sobczyk, a fund manager at PEH Wertpapier AG in Frankfurt. “There is no safe haven.” The trigger for the latest synchronicity is government announcements of stimulus measures to fight the outbreak, as investors adjust to the likely flood of new debt issuance and its impact on growth. All the same the bond rout in conjunction with stock declines is one of a series of dislocations sweeping major assets as investors liquidate exposures including bond positions. Illiquidity and extreme positioning make for a dysfunctional market. Just last week, ETFs tracking U.S. large-cap stocks and long-dated bonds saw their sharpest combined loss since TLT was born in 2002 -- another reminder their inverse relationship doesn’t always hold during crises. Recent moves in risk-free assets -- in money and rate markets -- is “puzzling” strategists at Citigroup led by Matt King, citing rising inflation-adjusted yields and falling gold. “Our best guess is that these have been exacerbated by margin calls, by the oil sell-off, and by the unwinding of loss-making positions by risk-parity and other hedge funds and by absolute return funds,” King wrote in a note on Tuesday. “Basically investors have been liquidating positions everywhere, whatever their rationale.” — With assistance by Justina Lee

Welcome to the Brussels Edition, Bloomberg’s daily briefing on what matters most in the heart of the European Union. Sign up here to get it in your inbox every weekday morning. The viral outbreak has pushed Europe across the Rubicon. The EU  shut its external borders, while members erect internal checkpoints. New curfews, lockdowns and more drastic restrictions are announced every day. Budget rules will be ditched, and Angela Merkel flirted with crossing the ultimate German red line by not ruling out  joint debt issuance. These steps eclipse the measures adopted almost a decade ago at the peak of the debt crisis. Back then, the existential threat forced Europe to deepen its integration. The jury is still out on how far and toward which direction the new threat will take the bloc this time.

More members of Congress said they are self-quarantining after two U.S. House members announced that they’d tested positive for the coronavirus. As the government tries to mitigate the virus’s spread and soften the economic fallout, Representative Kathleen Rice, a New York Democrat, announced late Wednesday that she would self quarantine “out of an abundance of caution” after coming into contact with someone who had tested positive for the virus.

Earlier this month, as coronavirus infections surged in Seattle, the downtown office building where Lilliana works started to empty out. Employees were heeding the call to work from home to limit the transmission of the disease. But Lilliana had to keep showing up: A day porter for a local property services contractor, she vacuums the floors, empties the trash, and wipes down surfaces at a multi-tenant commercial property. (She asked CityLab not to use her name because she didn’t want to risk losing her job.) Now Lilliana’s job comes with the pressure of protecting others as well as herself from Covid-19. Half a mile from where an Amazon employee tested positive for the virus earlier this month — eliciting a company-wide office shutdown — she isn’t confident that she had the tools to do it. “My supervisor says, ‘Everything is like normal, wear your gloves and wash your hands,’” she said. “But personally, I think that the priority is the tenants. I wish we had more information.” America’s 4.4 million janitors and domestic workers are on the frontlines of the fight to “flatten the curve,” scrubbing down surfaces where pathogens might live. A predominantly immigrant workforce, these workers report to large institutions, third-party service contractors, and domestic labor platforms. Many domestic workers, especially, are self-employed; they’re caring not only for a house but for the elderly or young people inside it. Virtually all of them hustled to meet the booming sanitation demands amid a rapidly evolving pandemic. And now, some of them are feeling the economic burden in a shifting job market. As coronavirus infections lit up communities throughout the U.S., the demand for cleaning workers has grown. Offices, schools, transit systems, malls, restaurants and other businesses are now seeking anti-viral scrub-downs, and help-wanted ads for cleaners are projected to spike 75% in March compared to the same time last year on the jobs platform ZipRecruiter. On Snagajob, another online jobs posting marketplace, cleaning jobs doubled in the last two weeks, as did applicants who said they were looking for cleaning jobs, according Mathieu Stevenson, the company’s CEO. But being a cleaner — and especially a new or inexpert one — comes with risks that this pandemic could magnify. Already these workers handle corrosive chemicals, haul heavy objects, and come into contact with potentially infectious garbage. Now they are contending with the presence of a dangerous coronavirus on the surfaces they’re cleaning, and some say that they aren’t being provided with adequate training or personal protective equipment. Lilliana says she’s been provided with gloves and eye protection, but with N-95 respirators in short supply globally, her crew is working without them. “We’ve gotten nothing,” Lilliana said. She wishes that she and her colleagues had face masks, hand sanitizer, and better health-care resources to protect their own immune systems as their jobs turn into what she describes as “constant disinfection.” Some workers worry that the materials they’re now being asked to use might be risky. Albina Kalabic, a janitor who cleans one of Amazon’s office buildings in Seattle, said that her colleagues experienced skin and eye irritations from a powerful hospital-grade disinfectant sprayed by a special cleaning crew that serviced the property as a precaution. Virex, a cleaning agent that has become the industry’s weapon of choice to fight coronavirus, can also cause rashes and burns. Asked for comment, an Amazon spokesperson stated that products in use contracted janitorial staff are not new and are being mixed and applied in compliance with federal standards. “Safety is a top priority for Amazon, both with our own employees the employees of our service providers, such as janitorial staff,” she said. Meanwhile, as Americans are scrubbing their own kitchen counters and doorknobs, commercial cleaning operations are becoming more labor-intensive. “It used to be that my job was to just clean one floor, and starting this week, it’s going to be double,” said Amir Kalabic, Amina’s husband, who is also a janitor at Amazon. “It’s becoming a quantity job, instead of a quality job.” Some large West Coast employers, including Microsoft, Google, and Facebook, have promised to pay their entire workforce, from janitor to engineers, for the duration of the Covid-19 crisis, regardless of whether or not they’re working. But not all are so lucky. The policy at Alliance Building Services, a contractor that supplies more than 750 janitors to properties around Seattle, is for employees to use regular vacation or sick days in case they fall ill with the novel coronavirus. The company has also forgone extra training or protective equipment for employees. “It’s just a flu — a very contagious, fast-spreading flu — but it’s just a flu, so it’s easy to kill,” said Scott Smith, the principal of the company. In a sense, he’s right, epidemiologists say: Like the coronaviruses that cause the common cold and seasonal influenza, the novel coronavirus that brings on Covid-19 is vulnerable to such standard interventions as soap, water, bleach, UV light, and alcohol-based cleaners. But once the virus gets transmitted, Covid-19 appears to have a far higher mortality rate than the seasonal flu, especially for older people or those with compromised immune systems. Should they contract the virus, lower-income immigrant workers may also be among the most vulnerable populations, because they often struggle to access medical care and public health information in their own language, and may lack the financial resources to stock up on food and medicines. Immigration enforcement agencies have stopped making most arrests during the Covid-19 crisis, in an effort to encourage undocumented people to seek treatment if they need it. The Kalabics and Cepeda have some measure of occupational defense — all three are members of the SEIU, a labor union for service workers across the U.S. But lots of cleaning professionals aren’t. Domestic workers and housekeepers, many of them immigrants and most of them women, are largely self-employed. Some are now being asked to work in potentially high-risk homes with few protections. “These families or homeowners are not putting in their request for a cleaner as, ‘I just recently started having symptoms and I’m staying home because I may have the coronavirus,’” said Rocío Alejandra Ávila, the National Domestic Worker Alliance’s California State Policy Director and Staff Attorney. “They’re in self-quarantine, so they’re all frantic, and they don’t want to do it themselves. But the person coming in is not getting a heads up.” Laws created to keep workers healthy rarely apply to self-employed cleaners who primarily care for private homes; for example, the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) excludes them entirely from its protections. Advocates say this exemption is a product of discrimination against the black women who dominated the domestic workforce when many labor laws were first drafted in the 1930s. “There are currently no standards in place to make sure domestic workers aren’t coming to work when it might endanger their health,” said Julie Kashen, the senior policy advisor for the National Domestic Workers Alliance. These gaps became clear during California’s fire season last year, when many housekeepers showed up to clean houses in mandatory evacuation areas. They had been asked to stay to take care of clients’ pets, or were left behind as an oversight — their clients just hadn’t told them to stay home. Advocates are pushing new legislation that would include domestic workers in California’s OSHA protections, says Kimberly Alvarenga, the director of the California Domestic Workers Coalition. Because the legislature has suspended its session amid the Covid-19 emergency, however, a resolution may be far off. If domestic workers get sick, many will also find it harder to take time off, which introduces a risk of infecting the families they care for, or the families they leave at home. Of the 2.5 million domestic workers in the country, 82% do not have sick leave, said Kashen; worker’s compensation coverage is slim, and varies by state, and unemployment insurance is nonexistent. “Domestic workers hold the economy up on a day-to-day basis: They make it so that everybody else gets to go to work,” said Alvarenga. “At this moment, they’re on the front lines of this, in terms of economic impact. And there are no safety nets for them.” Some gig economy platforms that help cleaning workers book jobs are offering additional measures and protections during the Covid-19 emergency. Ariel Rothbard, a spokesperson for TaskRabbit, said that the company has sent emails to all users with WHO’s coronavirus prevention recommendations, and “advised them to prioritize their health, in order to keep our TaskRabbit community safe.” Snagajob has upped its mandatory training for cleaners to include coronavirus precautions, said Stevenson. TaskRabbit and Snagajob are also waiving normal penalties for canceling a job within 24 hours of a booking. Snagajob’s Stevenson said that he also planned to permanently remove the requirement that workers provide a doctor’s note if they’re sick, or risk negative ratings on the app. “This is a group of workers for whom health care is not always readily accessible,” he said; a constant reality that the current crisis only made starker. Stevenson says that they’re looking into providing free weekly coronavirus testing to all workers on the platform, to provide peace of mind to employers and employees. (That could prove difficult, given the current lack of testing availability in the U.S.) Handy, another such platform, did not respond to requests for comment. Self-employed domestic workers are also facing unique financial challenges as coronavirus bears down. For one, most must provide their own cleaning supplies, and as the stakes of disinfection are raised, Ávila says employers have been asking their cleaners for more potent and specific products — yet another added cost they have to take on themselves. Anabel Garcia, a house cleaner and landscaper who lives in Santa Rosa, California, said through a Spanish interpreter that she has entered homes without knowing if they contain sick residents. While only one of her clients has asked for (and provided) extra-strength cleaning supplies, she says that the burden of buying gloves and face masks has fallen on her alone. But that burden may be soon be replaced by another one: Garcia’s jobs for the next week have mostly been canceled. For even as demand for disinfection initially surged, domestic work opportunities are likely to shrink as more people shelter in place, and offices, schools, and large institutional spaces shutter. Cleaners who are part of the Facebook group House Cleaning, Laundry, and More Tips are already reporting waning demand, with clients canceling shifts last-minute for fear of catching the illness or because they are no longer able to afford the service. Some cleaners themselves chose not to show up to a house for fear of being a vector for disease.  “Now that this crisis is happening and hitting everybody, domestic workers and other low wage immigrant workers are going to feel it the worst,” said Alvarenga. “They don’t have anybody to take care of their children, they don’t have the ability to access a lot of the rental assistance programming because of their [immigration] status, and they don’t have access to unemployment insurance.” A special elite of cleaning workers are getting extra training to face the pandemic. Nik Lahiri, the owner of California-based Essel Environmental Engineering and Staffing, has been relying on Craigslist to recruit hundreds of new employees to serve on hazmat crews for the surge in demand for building disinfections that he foresees in the coming months. New hires undergo three to five days of intensive training, and usually come with some previous experience of cleaning up after natural disasters or viral outbreaks. “When the rest of the world is losing their minds, houses and jobs, that’s when people rely on us to come through,” Lahiri said. “It’s our duty to have people ready that are properly trained and aren’t just picked up off the street.” Changes may be coming for some unionized workers. Amid the outbreak, David Huerta, the president of SEIU West, a chapter representing about 23,000 janitors among many other service professionals up and down the West Coast, said that the national organization is currently bargaining with employers and will soon present a list of demands for workers, including access to health care, paid time-off and information, training, and proper safety equipment. “This is going to be a huge challenge, keeping up with every workplace, every property, every apartment complex, everyone,” said Huerta. “We never really realize how important cleaning is until we realize that there’s an epidemic out there that’s just beginning to spread.” And while cleaners themselves are proud to be part of the solution to this public health crisis, they don’t want to be erased, said Cepeda. “We’re trying to keep this virus out of the buildings and keep all the people safe,” she said. “But I’m a human being. We want to feel safe too.”

Want the lowdown on what's moving European markets in your inbox every morning? Sign up here. Good morning. Investors are trying to predict when coronavirus cases will peak and how deep the economic recession will be, just as governments ramp up their response measures. Here’s what’s moving markets.

Demand has risen for private-jet operators as carriers make deep cuts to flight schedules and the well-heeled avoid commercial airports and planes. “Aircraft are getting booked literally in minutes,” said Richard Zaher, chief executive officer for Paramount Business Jets, based in Leesburg, Virginia. “It’s been unbelievable.”

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Glastonbury festival has been postponed until 2021 due to the coronavirus pandemic, organisers have said. The music festival, due to celebrate its 50th anniversary this year, is among a long list of high-profile events pushed back or cancelled due to the coronavirus pandemic. Michael and Emily Eavis, the event's organisers, confirmed that tickets for this year would roll over into 2021. A post on Twitter announced the news, saying: "We are so sorry to announce this, but we are going to have to cancel Glastonbury 2020. Tickets for this year will roll over to next year. Full statement below and on our website. Michael & Emily." A statement said: "We are no longer able to spend the next three months with thousands of crew on the farm, helping us with the enormous job of building the infrastructure and attractions needed to welcome more than 200,000 people to a temporary city in the fields." Glastonbury, which draws around 200,000 people to farmland in Somerset, was due to take place from June 24-28. The postponement follows updated guidance from the Government, calling on people to stay away from pubs, clubs and theatres and to avoid all non-essential contacts and travel. Last week, US rapper Kendrick Lamar was announced as the third headliner, joining Taylor Swift and Sir Paul McCartney, with Diana Ross due to play the Sunday legend's slot. Other music acts on the line-up include Dua Lipa, Camila Cabello and Pet Shop Boys, as well as rockers Sam Fender, Blossoms, Haim and Noel Gallagher's High Flying Birds. The Who, Madonna and Miley Cyrus have cancelled live dates due to the Covid-19 outbreak, while festivals such as Coachella and Stagecoach in the US have been postponed or called off. In the UK, Radio 1's Big Weekend is among the other big music events called off by organisers. The festival, which had Biffy Clyro, Harry Styles and Cabello on the line-up, was due to take place in Dundee from May 22-24. In Hollywood, Disney announced it was shutting down production on many of its live-action films, including The Little Mermaid, and the studio also delayed the release of a blockbuster remake of Mulan, which had been due to arrive in UK cinemas on March 27. Other film releases postponed include A Quiet Place II and Fast And Furious 9, as well as the upcoming James Bond movie No Time To Die, which has been pushed back to November, having originally been set to arrive in April.

An Estonian ferry sailing from Germany to the Latvian capital Riga will disembark more than 600 citizens from the Baltic states on Thursday night after they were unable to return home because Poland sealed its borders and effectively cut them off. The 48-hour emergency return trek to repatriate people, though, portends an even greater problem for Europe as governments go it alone in trying to  combat the spread of coronavirus: How to keep trade flowing in a market that was supposed to be seamless.

Sign up for Next China, a weekly email on where the nation stands now and where it's going next. Tencent Holdings Ltd. delivered disappointing earnings and warned about a difficult advertising environment in 2020, voicing caution about how a potential Chinese economic contraction might affect its sprawling businesses.

Singapore financial-technology firm MatchMove has teamed up with homegrown finance company Singapura Finance Ltd. and two others to apply for a digital banking license in the city-state. The MatchMove-led consortium is the latest group to announce it’s submitted an application for a digital full banking license to the Monetary Authority of Singapore. That sets the firm against heavyweights including Sea Ltd., which is backed by Tencent Holdings Ltd., and the Grab Holdings Inc.-Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. consortium.

Chicago (AP) -- Progressive Marie Newman won a rematch Tuesday with Illinois Rep. Dan Lipinski, unseating one of the most conservative Democrats in Congress in a victory for abortion-rights and women's groups that have targeted the eight-term congressman for years. Newman topped Lipinski and two other challengers to win the primary in the heavily Democratic Chicago-area district after losing by about 2 points in 2018. Lipinski is the first congressional incumbent to lose in a primary race this cycle.

BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest asset manager, intends to step up efforts to hold corporate directors accountable for failure to improve corporate governance and sustainability practices. The firm’s priorities -- board quality, environmental risks and opportunities, corporate strategy and capital allocation, compensation and human-capital management -- will be “emphasized with greater vigor” this year, Michelle Edkins, the firm’s global head of investment stewardship, said in an interview.

New Zealand’s economy cooled in the fourth quarter of 2019, leaving it in a weaker position before the arrival of the coronavirus pandemic this year. Gross domestic product rose 1.8% from a year earlier, the weakest annual growth since the fourth quarter of 2013 and down from 2.3% in the previous three months, Statistics New Zealand said Thursday in Wellington. GDP climbed 0.5% from the third quarter, matching economists’ median estimate.

Twitter Inc. said on Wednesday that it’s expanding its content moderation rules to capture more forms of misinformation around the novel coronavirus, following a similar escalation of measures from Facebook Inc. earlier in the day. The company will require users to remove tweets that deny expert guidance, encourage fake or ineffective treatments and preventions or falsely purport to be from experts or authorities. The goal is to capture anything “that increases the chance that someone contracts or transmits the virus,” it tweeted. Twitter will also take action against claims alleging that particular groups or nationalities are more susceptible to Covid-19, calling out anyone suggesting that Chinese people are more likely to have the disease.

The global financial industry urged regulators around the globe to coordinate their response to the coronavirus outbreak to avoid regional fragmentation and competitive distortions. “We must remember that today’s global financial system is governed by a regulatory framework defined by global standards,” UBS Group AG Chairman Axel Weber and Tim Adams, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Institute of International Finance, a lobby group, said in a joint statement. “Coordinated action would ensure not only greater effectiveness of measures that ultimately apply to global markets, but also a level playing field.”

Hundreds of people gathered to celebrate the nationalization of Mexico’s petroleum reserves Wednesday at the state-owned Petroleos Mexicanos’s office tower in Mexico City, even as coronavirus cases surge globally and international health authorities urge containment measures. President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador kissed and shook hands with several members of his government on stage, where he was flanked by Pemex Chief Executive Officer Octavio Romero Oropeza, Energy Minister Rocio Nahle, Interior Minister Olga Sanchez Cordero and Mexico City Mayor Claudia Sheinbaum, among others.

Plummeting oil prices and the rapidly spreading coronavirus outbreak hammered Latin American currencies on Wednesday. Mexico’s peso, the region’s most-traded currency, led declines, slumping 4.2% to a record against the dollar as of 10:45 a.m. New York time. The Brazilian real followed with a 2.4% drop, while Chile’s peso fell 1.5%.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. More than a hundred Iranians have died from alcohol poisoning in recent weeks in the mistaken belief that industrial-grade ethanol and methanol will help ward off the coronavirus ravaging the country, according to local media reports.

SoftBank’s Vision Fund, the $100 billion investment vehicle that counts WeWork, DoorDash Inc. and Uber Technologies Inc. among its bets, has promoted several staff following a slew of departures, according to people with knowledge of the matter. The promotions include Abu Dhabi-based Faisal Rehman, who rises to managing partner from his previous rank of partner, said the people, who requested anonymity because the appointments haven’t publicly been announced.

Want the lowdown on European markets? In your inbox before the open, every day. Sign up here. Inditex SA said the coronavirus outbreak has forced the owner of the Zara and Massimo Dutti chains to shutter half its stores as the epicenter of the disease shifts from China to other key markets such as Spain and Italy.

There’s a rush of interest in handing out  $1,000 to every adult American—or some variant of that gambit—to soften the economic harm of the Covid-19 pandemic. Advocates of showering money on the public include fiscal conservatives such as Senator Mitt Romney, the Utah Republican, and Gregory Mankiw, the Harvard economist who was a chief economic adviser to President George W. Bush. The Trump administration wants to send out checks soon, possibly in amounts greater than $1,000 each, as part of a stimulus that could total $1.2 trillion. Helicopter money, so called because it seems to fall from the sky, gets a lot of dollars out to a broad swath of the public. (The assumption is that the Federal Reserve won’t counteract the stimulus by sucking the dollars back out of the economy.) In contrast, a payroll tax holiday, which President Trump has  advocated, helps only employed people who incur payroll taxes. But a check from Washington doesn’t work as quickly as a payroll tax cut, which could take effect as early as April 1. Helicopter money is usually done via a tax credit that’s “refundable,” meaning you get it even if you don’t owe income taxes because your income is too low. The credits take time to enact and carry out. “In 2008, legislation approving the stimulus passed in February, while most individuals received checks amounting to $600 (twice that for joint filers) between May and July. In the current environment, a similar timeline of three-to-five months would be far too slow,” economists Carl Riccadonna and Andrew Husby of Bloomberg Economics  wrote on March 13. Average monthly consumer expenditures in the U.S. in 2018 Data: Bureau of Labor Statistics  One problem with both kinds of tax cuts is that they’re too small for people who are in a pickle and too big for those who don’t need help. And the businesses in the most danger will benefit the least. No one’s going to splurge on  restaurants,  airlines, or  hotels just because the government cut them a check. Alan Auerbach, an economist at the University of California at Berkeley, says one solution is to beef up and extend unemployment insurance for people working in virus-stricken industries. While that helps the workers, it doesn’t help the companies. One out-of-the-box idea: The federal government could give money directly to companies to make up for lost revenue. In the airline industry, for example, “If demand drops by 80 percent, the government would compensate this missing demand, in effect buying 80 percent of plane tickets and maintaining sales constant,” Berkeley economists Emmanuel Saez and Gabriel Zucman proposed on March 16 in an article on Pro-Market, a University of Chicago Booth School of Business blog. “Business activity is on hold today,” they write, “but with intravenous cash flow, it can be kept alive until the health crisis is over.” —With Josh Wingrove, Laura Davison, and Saleha Mohsin Read more:  How Covid-19 Affects the U.S. Workforce, by Income and Industry

Follow Bloomberg on LINE messenger for all the business news and analysis you need. Buying stocks and bonds based on company performance and outlook, especially assets based in Asia, will prevail over passive investing in a virus-wrecked world, according to Fidelity International Ltd.

As U.S. stocks slump anew and recession angst snowballs, defense is now the only game in town. Equity investors are punishing the weakest companies and rewarding the strongest as earnings expectations plunge thanks to the coronavirus outbreak, while exposing shaky foundations of credit markets.

Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter South Africa’s government told labor unions representing about 1.3 million of its workers that it will scrap wage increases previously agreed to for the beginning of April, potentially triggering protests despite a ban on large gatherings.

Follow Bloomberg on LINE messenger for all the business news and analysis you need. Malaysia will be closing most of its palm oil operations as the country shutters non-essential business in an effort to fight the spread of the coronavirus, according to the Malayan Agricultural Producers Association.

Health-care facilities are awaiting federal guidance on how to better conserve their short supply of surgical gowns, face masks, and other protective gear during the new coronavirus pandemic. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is expected to issue guidance on Wednesday detailing how nursing homes, hospital clinics, and other providers can best utilize their supply, Mark Parkinson, president and CEO of the American Health Care Association, said in a briefing with reporters.

Follow Bloomberg on LINE messenger for all the business news and analysis you need. Most Singapore wholesalers and retailers managed to receive goods after Malaysia imposed a partial travel lockdown the previous day to curb the spread of coronavirus, the city state’s Trade and Industry Minister Chan Chun Sing said in a Facebook post Wednesday.

Hedge fund manager Bill Ackman is buying shares of private equity heavyweight Blackstone Group Inc., according to a person familiar with the matter, as the growing coronavirus pandemic roils markets. Blackstone slumped 1.6% on Wednesday and has declined 34% over the past month. Competitors including Brookfield Asset Management Inc. and Apollo Global Management Inc. have recorded similar declines.

Lobbying groups that represent companies including Target Corp., The Clorox Co., and Anheuser-Busch InBev NV, are pushing for an exemption from local gathering bans and curfews in the U.S. so that stores can replenish products that are rapidly disappearing from store shelves. More than four dozen industry groups representing sectors ranging from household products, food and beverages to transportation, are pressing the Trump administration, lawmakers and state and local officials to set a clear framework for consumer goods makers, food processors, distributors and their workers to prevent shortages.

A potential government bailout has become the latest flash point in Delta Air Lines Inc.’s longstanding battle with labor organizers trying to unionize the company’s flight attendants. Delta’s senior vice president of in-flight service, Allison Ausband, accused the Association of Flight Attendants of opposing any assistance to the company. The union, which has called on Congress to attach certain conditions to any support, has been “suggesting that Delta should be excluded from any potential federal aid,” Ausband said Wednesday in a memo to employees.

A top fundraiser for U.S. presidents and members of Congress secretly lobbied for years to advance the interests of foreign governments and people, including a Ukrainian oligarch fighting extradition for criminal prosecution in the U.S., according to prosecutors. Imaad Shah Zuberi funneled millions of dollars in illegal foreign contributions into the campaign accounts of U.S. politicians and hid the source of the funds by making the donations in the name of third parties, prosecutors said in a court filing on Tuesday.

Countries across the European Union’s east unveiled rescue packages as the coronavirus lockdown threatens to push their economies into recession. Poland’s government unveiled a package worth $52 billion, or 9% of gross domestic product, while Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babis pledged aid amounting to $40 billion -- twice as much as Poland’s relative to economic output. Hungary, Romania and other nations also presented measures to shield workers and companies.

Salt Lake City (AP) -- A moderate earthquake Wednesday near Salt Lake City temporarily shut down a major air traffic hub, damaged a spire atop a temple and frightened millions of people already on edge from the coronavirus pandemic. There were no reports of injuries. The 5.7-magnitude quake just after 7 a.m. damaged the spire and statue atop the iconic Salt Lake Temple. Elsewhere, bricks were showered onto sidewalks and a chemical plume was released outside the city.

Sign up for Next China, a weekly email on where the nation stands now and where it's going next. China is exploring relaxing some emissions standards to provide relief for automakers battling an unprecedented slump in the world’s largest car market, according to people familiar with the matter.

The hotel industry is dealing with major fallout as the coronavirus outbreak keeps Americans at home. Hotel occupancy in the U.S. fell 24% in the week that ended March 14 as travel shut down across the globe. Seattle and San Francisco were particularly hard hit, with occupancy rates dropping below 40%, according to data provided to clients by lodging analytics firm STR.

Want to receive this post in your inbox every day? Sign up for the Balance of Power newsletter, and follow Bloomberg Politics on Twitter and Facebook for more. Not long ago, Donald Trump was talking about $2 billion in U.S. funds to blunt the impact of the coronavirus outbreak.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Indonesia reported the biggest jump in coronavirus infection since the outbreak began with the authorities warning of a fresh wave of cases in the world’s fourth-most populous nation.

Emirates, the world’s biggest long-haul airline, is looking at grounding the bulk of its 115 Airbus SE superjumbos as the coronavirus undermines global travel demand, people familiar with the situation said. Dubai-based Emirates has already idled more than 20 A380s and is seeking to delay taking the last handful due for delivery, Bloomberg reported last week. The company hasn’t made a decision on standing down the fleet, according to the people, who asked not to be named discussing a private matter.

Europe has surpassed China in its number of confirmed coronavirus cases and deaths from the disease, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Europe’s total of more than 85,000 infections exceeds China’s 80,900. Europe has also reported just under 4,000 deaths from Covid-19, compared with about 3,200 in China. Italy’s death count alone is 2,978.

The fallout from the worst rout in credit markets since the global financial crisis is spreading, threatening everything from mortgage debt in Australia to local government bond markets in the U.S. As the deadly coronavirus pandemic brought more grim headlines Wednesday, risk gauges in the U.S. and Europe pushed out further in another volatile session. The crisis has also closed in on Japan’s $650 billion local credit market, which had been an oasis of calm.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Danish toymaker Lego has shut down all of its stores outside China to at least until March 27 due to the coronavirus, Ritzau reported, citing a LinkedIn post by Chief Executive Officer Niels B. Christiansen.

Former hedge fund manager and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. trader Sean Feeney knows it's important to have skin in the game during a crisis. That's why he is offering a share of profits to employees at Misi and Lilia, the restaurants he co-owns with chef Missy Robbins. While staff members are being temporarily let go so they can seek unemployment benefits, those who return when the restaurants are allowed to reopen are eligible for a percentage of the profits, he said on Instagram. Feeney also made a plea that government support businesses hurt by the Covid-19 coronavirus pandemic, just as banks were helped during the financial crisis. “We can demand that relief comes to our industry the same way it did to the financial industry in 2008 in the form of TARP when I was trading high-yield bonds for a living,'' said Feeney in his post, referring to the Troubled Asset Relief Program. “I saw what that did to save our country, its people and companies on Wall Street. These same mechanisms should be used for all industries at this time again.''

Hardly a day goes by right now without business groups calling on the White House to suspend tariffs on Chinese goods in an effort to help them stem the growing challenges faced by the coronavirus outbreak. On Wednesday morning, Americans for Free Trade, a group of more than 160 business associations, urged Trump to consider relief from duties as one of the emergency measures his administration is rolling out. “These tariffs are taxes that Americans pay,” the group said in a letter.

The U.S. Treasury Department proposed to temporarily guarantee money market mutual funds with taxpayer dollars as part of its coronavirus stimulus plan, according to a document obtained by Bloomberg News. In a proposal sent to lawmakers early Wednesday, the department laid out plans to temporarily permit use of its exchange stabilization fund to guarantee money markets, according to the document.

Homebound shoppers may put going-out-of-business sales out of business for a while. Creditors are facing lower potential recovery values from bankrupt chains like Pier 1 Imports Inc. and Modell’s Sporting Goods Inc., where liquidation sales are underway. More failed chains also risk running out of money during the court process and shifting from a reorganization to a full liquidation of the business.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. CanSino Biologics Inc. said it received Chinese regulatory approval to start human trials of a vaccine against the novel coronavirus, another example of a potential weapon against the illness being fast-tracked for testing as the global death toll escalates and nations impose lockdowns on their citizens.

The Treasury Department will propose lending airlines $50 billion in its coronavirus stimulus plan, rejecting the industry’s request for nearly $30 billion in grants, according to a document obtained by Bloomberg News. The agency will use its exchange stabilization fund to provide $50 billion for secured lending to U.S. passenger and cargo airlines, the document says.

The White House is working with broadcast networks on commercials designed to tell Americans how to protect themselves from the coronavirus, including social distancing measures.Commercials will feature first lady Melania Trump and members of the president’s coronavirus task force -- among them, coronavirus response coordinator Deborah Birx and National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Director Anthony Fauci -- and will address personal hygiene and mental health. Partners in the effort include NBCUniversal Media LLC -- which plans to create its own series of videos and graphics -- and ViacomCBS Inc., which will turn over air time on both its broadcast channel and cable networks like MTV and Comedy Central. Radio giant iHeartMedia Inc. and Walt Disney Co. also plan to participate in the effort.

Pierre Andurand, the hedge fund manager known for his bullish oil calls, won big as prices crashed to 18-year lows. The Andurand Commodities Fund was up 40% in the first two weeks of March and 30% year to date, according to people familiar with the matter, who asked not to be named because the information isn’t public. Those gains wipe out the last two years of losses, they added.

First, the good news: thanks to surging tax collections, U.S. states collectively have built up the largest fiscal cushion since 2000. Bad news: no one knows if that will be enough as the coronavirus pandemic spreads, businesses close and the stock market turmoil hits state finances.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte may extend a national lockdown beyond April 3, as coronavirus cases continue to climb in Europe’s worst outbreak, newspaper La Stampa reported.

Axiom Alternative Investments suspended a 110 million euro ($120 million) credit fund, citing difficulties valuing its underlying holdings. The Axiom Credit Opportunities fund uses leverage and invests mainly in credit default swaps. But the CDS market is dislocated right now, making it harder to price the assets, according to Jerome Legras, managing partner and head of research at the long-short fund.

For a fresh perspective on the stories that matter for Australian business and politics, sign up for our new weekly newsletter. Australian hoarders, who have stripped shop shelves of everything from flour to disinfectant and brawled over toilet paper, were shamed by Prime Minister Scott Morrison as the nation’s biggest supermarket chain tightened purchase limits during the coronavirus outbreak.

Sign up to receive the Green Daily newsletter in your inbox every weekday. Being a capitalist with a conscience sometimes means putting people over profits, both for their benefit and that of the company in the long run. The Covid-19  pandemic has made this plain. As millions of people began  working from home, companies are being pushed to adapt faster than most are used to. And in doing so, they’ve played a positive role in the fight. Company responses to the virus and its impact have unleashed a new sort of business creativity, as executives scramble to find ways to adjust sick and paid leave policies, pay hourly workers, and test systems for distributed work.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. European stocks struggled to find a floor to the current market sell-off as losses resumed on virus worries after Tuesday’s brief respite.

First, office workers and bartenders were sent home. Now, the cogs of Canadian industry are slowly grinding down as major companies curb operations to limit the spread of the coronavirus. Firms like Vale SA are idling some operations while Canadian oil sands producers Syncrude Canada Ltd. and Suncor Energy Inc. are delaying maintenance work as coronavirus cases rise across Canada. Growth forecasts that were already revised lower amid the pandemic and tumbling oil prices are being cut again. Economists expect the virus will spur a recession with few industries left untouched.

Thailand reported another 35 novel coronavirus cases, the nation’s biggest daily jump, adding to evidence of a widening outbreak that’s triggered restrictions on daily life. The new infections take the total to 212, Suwannachai Wattanayingcharoenchai, the director-general of the Department of Disease Control, said in a briefing Wednesday. Many of the latest cases are linked to clusters from pubs and boxing stadiums, he said.

Ocado Group Plc has temporarily closed its website as it struggles to cope with demand from shoppers trying to stockpile groceries. The U.K. online grocer closed its site until Saturday as it faces a “simply staggering amount of traffic” and is trying to catch up with orders. The site also won’t accept new customers for the time being because it wouldn’t be able to keep up.

Chinese property developers, the biggest junk bond issuers in Asia, are at growing risk of default as the coronavirus outbreak squeezes funding channels, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers. In China, 90% of apartments are sold before construction is completed, making developers “reliant on pre-sales as part of their overall financing,” PwC said in a report released in Hong Kong on Thursday.

Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Uganda charged a former security minister seeking to unseat President Yoweri Museveni with treason and unlawful possession of firearms almost a week after his arrest.

Brazil’s Senate president is the latest politician to test positive for coronavirus as the disease spreads among the political elite of Latin America’s largest economy. Davi Alcolumbre, 42, was found with Covid-19 after initially testing negative for the virus, he said via Twitter. His positive diagnosis follows those of Brazil’s top security official and the mining and energy minister, a sign coronavirus is moving fast in the country’s capital and political center, Brasilia.

For Australians, getting called “un-Australian” is one of the most grating insults around. So when Prime Minister Scott Morrison used the term to shame hoarders on Wednesday while seeking to calm panic over a surge in coronavirus cases, it got the public’s attention. He insisted the chaotic scenes in the nation’s supermarkets, which have seen shoppers battle over food and toilet rolls, “must stop.”

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Poland announced a rescue package designed to shield the economy from the impact of the coronavirus that will cost around 212 billion zloty ($52 billion), or roughly 9% of gross domestic product.

Indonesia banned exports of masks, sanitizers and some medical equipment to shore up domestic supplies amid a surge in new cases of coronavirus infection. Shipments of face masks, its raw materials, antiseptics and protective gears such as surgery clothing are banned until June 30, the Trade Ministry said in a statement Wednesday. Exporters who fail to comply will be penalized, it said.

The leveraged loan market has plunged to levels not seen since the financial crisis, signaling higher default rates and a potential funding crunch ahead. “The concern has mutated from coronavirus causing a recession to a potential outright funding and credit crisis,” said Scott Macklin, director of leveraged-loan strategies at AllianceBernstein.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. A blood thinner used to treat pancreatitis and kidney disease has been identified as a potential therapy for coronavirus patients, with clinical trials in Japan possibly set to begin within a month, researchers at the University of Tokyo said Wednesday.

The National Energy Regulator of South Africa took a crucial step toward allowing the government to procure emergency power and to allow the building of more privately owned power plants. The regulator issued public consultation papers after the energy minister allowed the procurement of 2,000 megawatts of emergency capacity as soon as possible and the construction of 6,800 megawatts of capacity from longer-term renewable power plants. The longer term plan is in line with a government energy framework that includes additional generation capacity in the form of non-renewable power. South Africa is in urgent need of more electicity to end recurrent outages.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. European government bonds from Italy to Greece surged after the European Central Bank launched a 750 billion euro ($810 billion) debt-buying program to keep borrowing costs in check as countries prepare to increase spending to counter the impact of the coronavirus.

Want the lowdown on European markets? In your inbox before the open, every day. Sign up here. Norway’s central bank said it’s ready to intervene in currency markets for the first time in more than two decades, after the krone became the victim of the worst sell-off in its history.

A trade group representing shopping-center owners is urging the Trump administration to provide relief to retailers, restaurants and landlords as the coronavirus pandemic shuts down commerce around the U.S. The government should guarantee or pay for business-interruption coverage, the International Council of Shopping Centers said Tuesday in a letter to President Donald Trump, Vice President Mike Pence and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin.

Follow Bloomberg on  Telegram for all the investment news and analysis you need. Philippine stocks’ record 13.3% slump following an unusual two-day shutdown signals the risks associated with controversial moves to halt trading.

Supply and demand in China’s gigantic commodities industry show how the world’s biggest consumer is making a gradual but uneven return to normality after being ravaged by the coronavirus. While oil refining and coal use slowly trend higher as factories resume operations and people get back in their cars and return to work, metals stockpiles are still surging as consumption teeters globally and soybean processing has slowed due to a drop-off in imports.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Europe’s banks want you to know they’re safe.

For a fresh perspective on the stories that matter for Australian business and politics, sign up for our new weekly newsletter. The Reserve Bank of Australia is poised to deploy its remaining interest-rate ammunition Thursday and delve into its policy toolkit for unconventional measures to support the battered economy.

The Hong Kong pet dog that was tested for coronavirus has died two days after it was released from quarantine. The dog, identified by the South China Morning Post as a 17-year-old Pomeranian, died on Monday, Hong Kong’s Agriculture, Fisheries and Conservation Department said in an email, citing the animal’s owner. The department said the cause of death couldn’t be determined after the owner, who recently recovered from a coronavirus infection, declined to conduct an autopsy.

Last Friday, before hundreds of thousands of workers were sent home and “social distancing” became the norm, small businesses saw a precipitous drop in spending. Spending at hotels and other lodging businesses was down 63% on March 13 compared with March 15, 2019, also a Friday. Restaurants and bars saw revenue fall 20% and 16%, respectively, according to data compiled by payment processor Womply.

General Motors Co., Ford Motor Co., and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles NV will temporarily shut down their U.S. plants in an effort to contain the spread of the coronavirus, bowing to public pressure that Tesla Inc.’s Elon Musk has defied. Ford will halt operations at all North American manufacturing facilities after Thursday evening shifts, according to a statement. GM said it will suspend production at all plants -- at different times and on a rolling basis -- until at least March 30 and Fiat Chrysler also plans to idle its factories through the end of the month.

Banks that agreed to help private equity firms and highly leveraged companies fund recent acquisitions may have to come up with billions of dollars of their own cash to finance the deals if the market for risky debt remains shut. Underwriters across Wall Street have committed to providing more than $30 billion to junk-rated companies by mid-year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and people with knowledge of the matter who asked not to be identified because not authorized to speak publicly.

For years, TV executives have fretted there is too much TV. Now, with the coronavirus looming large, they are worried there might not be enough. Because of the pandemic, streaming surged this past weekend, according to Wurl Inc., a company that delivers video and advertising to connected TVs. The amount of time people spent streaming spiked by more than 20% worldwide, including more than 40% in Austria and Spain.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Facebook Inc. said a filter for combating spam on the social network was beset by a bug that mistakenly eliminated legitimate news stories and other posts, miscategorizing them as content that violates its rules.

On March 9, as President Donald Trump was downplaying the health risks posed by the coronavirus and  comparing it to the flu in an effort to keep stocks from tumbling, Ohio Governor Mike DeWine was declaring a state of emergency—even though the state had only three confirmed cases at that point—warning Ohioans that more stringent safeguards were on the way. The same day in California, Governor Gavin Newsom was overseeing a plan with Oakland Mayor Libby Schaaf to disembark, treat, and quarantine passengers from the virus-stricken Grand Princess cruise ship. And in Washington, the state with the highest number of Covid-19 deaths, Governor Jay Inslee was weighing mandatory limits on public gatherings, after successfully petitioning the legislature for $100 million in emergency funds. The coronavirus pandemic has exposed a stark divide in the U.S. between the state and federal responses to the crisis, with governors stepping into a void left by the sluggish actions and mixed messaging of the federal government. It’s a division that Trump himself has deepened, say local leaders of both parties and political observers—for example, by telling governors on a teleconference that they should try to obtain ventilators and other medical equipment on their own. “Normally, if you’re a governor, you would wait for some lead from the federal government,” says Raphael Sonenshein, a political science professor at California State University at Los Angeles. “You would expect the national government to come in with the big checkbook and the sweeping powers it possesses. When the national government doesn’t play that role, you see governors stepping into the vacuum.” The federal government responded to the outbreak weeks later than other countries, especially in calling for social distancing and making testing available so the spread of the virus can be understood and limited, says Dr. Peter Katona, professor of medicine and public health at the University of California at Los Angeles. States and their leaders have wide latitude to take action during a public-health crisis, and in this instance, they’ve been forced to be especially aggressive, he says. “To be blunt, it’s because the White House really has not been doing things correctly,” Katona says. “The federal government has just been very, very slow in acting on this in an appropriate way.” In early March, much of what the president said about the virus was  contradicted or clarified by other administration officials, including his assertion that the number of cases nationally was declining and that “anyone who wants a test can get a test.” The president unleashed broadsides at press conferences and on Twitter,  calling Inslee “a snake” while defending his administration’s response to the crisis and attacking the news media’s coverage of it. But on March 13 the White House  declared a national emergency, freeing up billions of federal dollars to assist state and local governments. A few days later, Trump seemed to  shift his tone on the virus, calling for people to avoid large gatherings and admitting, “This is a very bad one.” According to polls, Americans view the outbreak and government response through a partisan lens, with most Republicans saying Trump has done a good job handling the crisis, while most Democrats say he hasn’t. Some Republican governors have been slow to respond—possibly, Katona says, because they took their cues from Trump. Oklahoma Governor Kevin Stitt, for instance, drew criticism for a March 14 selfie he tweeted and later deleted, showing himself and his children at an Oklahoma City food hall and saying, “It’s packed tonight!” Other Republican governors, including DeWine, Charlie Baker of Massachusetts, and Gary Herbert of Utah, have been among those taking the strongest steps to counter the outbreak. DeWine has been more active and forceful than most. A day after his emergency declaration, DeWine recommended that spectators be banned from indoor sporting events—before leagues began canceling games. He set the limit of mass gatherings at 100 when others put the number higher, and he was one of the first governors to close schools, bars, and restaurants. DeWine also supported the state health director ordering the polls closed in the March 17 primary as a health emergency. The governor said all along he based his decisions on science and guidance from a team of health experts, erring on the side of being too aggressive in the name of saving lives. If they have made mistakes, it will be because they “were too cautious,” DeWine told reporters on March 11. “But I don’t think these are mistakes. We’re doing what we have to do.” DeWine’s actions have drawn praise from Democrats, including former Ohio Governor Ted Strickland, who says he disagrees with DeWine on some social issues but thinks he’s handling the crisis well. “He’s providing the kind of leadership that probably we needed at the federal level,” Strickland says. In California, as Newsom declared a state of emergency, moved to limit public gatherings, and tried to obtain more tests to screen for the virus, he worked with Oakland’s Schaaf, a fellow Democrat, to find a place to dock the Grand Princess after other mayors expressed concern that the ship’s passengers might spread the virus to their cities. “We have to not let our fears impede our humanity,” Schaaf said. The plan provided for the ship to dock at an empty industrial berth and most of its California passengers to be quarantined for 14 days at military bases. Others with the disease were treated at local hospitals, and passengers from outside the U.S. took chartered flights back to their home countries. Trump’s criticism of Inslee came after a tweet from the Democratic governor in February in which Inslee said he’d spoken with Vice President Mike Pence—who’s heading the White House coronavirus response—and asked that the administration stick to facts when discussing the crisis. Inslee brushed off Trump’s “snake” insult in an appearance on CBS, praising the help he said Pence and the federal government had given him in battling the contagion. “We are very pleased with the federal government helping us right now,” Inslee said. “I don’t care what Donald Trump thinks of me, and I just kind of ignore it.” The U.S. federalist system of government, intended to allow the national and state governments to share power, is often a source of tension as leaders assert the primacy of federal over state authority on particular issues, or vice versa. The system appears to rule out the sort of unilateral actions taken in response to the coronavirus by countries such as China—which isolated an entire province to fight the outbreak—and France, which imposed a near-total nationwide lockdown. Experts say the limits of U.S. federal power in taking extraordinary steps to deal with a public-health crisis haven’t been thoroughly tested. Other countries’ experience in fighting the outbreak shows that speed matters, with cases of Covid-19 expected to double every several days if there’s no intervention. So states should be taking aggressive actions, says Rajeev Venkayya, who was responsible for the development and implementation of the National Strategy for Pandemic Influenza under President George W. Bush. When it comes to measures like staying home and closing schools, “we have to do them early and in a coordinated fashion for them to [be] maximally effective, which makes leadership from government critically important,” Venkayya says. Governors acting on their own create a patchwork of safeguards across the U.S. “You’d like to see every state taking some form of action because this is a global problem, and not a problem in one state or one city or one county,” says Katona. New York’s Andrew Cuomo declared a state of emergency on March 7, and three days later deployed National Guard troops to assist with more than 100 confirmed cases at the time. On March 12, he banned gatherings of more than 500 people. That meant closing down Broadway shows—a $1.8 billion annual industry—as well as museums and other cultural sites. On March 16, Cuomo joined New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy and Connecticut Governor Ned Lamont, both fellow Democrats, to announce a ban on crowds of more than 50 and ordered closure of bars, movie theaters, restaurants, and gyms. The decision to act jointly came “amid a lack of federal direction,” according to a statement from the governors. Trump fired back at Cuomo after the day’s teleconference, tweeting: “Just had a very good tele-conference with Nations’s Governors. Went very well. Cuomo of New York has to ‘do more.’” Cuomo responded on Twitter: “Happy to do your job, too. Just give me control of the Army Corps of Engineers and I’ll take it from there.”

The coranavirus pandemic could lead to more worldwide job losses than the global financial crisis, according to the International Labour Organization. The outbreak could eradicate as many as 25 million jobs, the Geneva-based group said Wednesday. The meltdown of 2008-2009 increased unemployment by 22 million.

The airline industry “would be the number one” priority for federal assistance in the wake of drops in travel because Covid-19, President Donald Trump said Wednesday. “They go from having the best year they’ve ever had to having no passengers because of what we had to do to win this war,” Trump said at a briefing on the administration’s response to the virus.

More gas and power traders than ever will take home seven-figure bonuses after profiting from a deep slump in European energy prices. The natural gas lost almost half its value last year because of a worldwide glut, a deeper slump than during the last financial crisis. The bearish trend helped many of the best traders to rake in $1 million or more in bonuses for 2019, recruiters said.

Follow Bloomberg on LINE messenger for all the business news and analysis you need. Indonesia has pledged to boost stimulus efforts aimed at countering the coronavirus crisis by as much $1.8 billion, Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati said, as the outlook for Southeast Asia’s biggest economy continues to deteriorate.

America’s local governments are asking the federal government for massive amounts of aid as the fallout from the coronavirus pandemic threatens to leave them contending with significant budget shortfalls. On Wednesday, the nation’s mayors requested $250 billion to help cushion the blow to cities stung by the disappearance of tourism, layoffs and the shutdown of schools. With subway and train ridership plunging, New York’s Metropolitan Transportation Authority has asked for a $4 billion bailout. And counties are seeking additional help from Washington as shuttered businesses cause tax revenue to disappear.

U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson said schools will close from Friday, increasing restrictions on the British population as the country grapples with a spiraling coronavirus crisis. Johnson’s announcement covers English schools, after administrators in Scotland and Wales earlier told schools in those regions to prepare to close from Friday.

U.S. stocks edged higher as investors gave a tepid vote of confidence to the battery of economic and financial measures from global policy makers aimed at easing the market turmoil. Oil soared and the dollar extended its rally. The Nasdaq Composite Index led gains as bargain hunters snapped up tech shares, with Tesla Inc., Twitter Inc. and Netflix Inc. all up at least 5%. The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed back above 20,000. Crude surged the most on record as Middle East producers began to show signs of strain and President Donald Trump said he would get involved in the oil price standoff at the “appropriate time.”

Oil surged the most ever in New York as the U.S. president said he could get involved in the standoff between Saudi Arabia and Russia that has rocked crude markets. U.S. futures rose 24% on Thursday, the most since trading began in 1983. Prices are still down almost 60% this year, with the slide accelerating following a failed OPEC+ meeting in early March, after which major producers pledged to pump more in a battle for market share just as the coronavirus crisis crushes demand.

Shareholder advisory firm Glass Lewis has issued a fresh recommendation against a proposal by Cromwell Property Group’s largest shareholder to appoint its candidate to the Australian real estate company’s board. The proxy adviser said the new proposal by ARA Asset Management Ltd. to name Gary Weiss as an independent director contained “material faults,” according to documents seen by Bloomberg News. Apart from ARA, investors voted against Weiss’ candidacy by a ratio of 3 to 1 in the previous meeting, the firm said, in a recommendation issued ahead of Cromwell’s extraordinary general meeting March 30.







The Navy hospital ship USNS Comfort will be dispatched to New York City as coronavirus cases almost doubled, Governor Andrew Cuomo told reporters in Albany on Wednesday. The floating hospital, which has previously been sent to disaster zones such as Haiti and post-Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans, can help free 1,000 beds when it arrives in a few weeks, the governor said. Another ship, the Mercy, will head to the West Coast.Defense Secretary Mark Esper told reporters on Tuesday that hospital ships aren’t equipped to handle infectious disease patients but could provide care for trauma victims, allowing more beds in hospitals on land to handle those with the coronavirus.

Prime Minister Scott Morrison will introduce new income support for the jobless as part of a second stimulus package to prop up the economy as the coronavirus outbreak bites, the Australian Financial Review reported. The new transitional income support will be a temporary wage that’s higher than current unemployment benefit, and will be a central feature of the new fiscal plan, the newspaper said, without citing sources. The plan, which will also include survival assistance for small and medium businesses, will dwarf the A$17.6 billion ($10.2 billion) suite of economic measures announced last week, according to the report.

Billionaire money manager Jeffrey Gundlach covered his last U.S. short position, saying the “palpable” panic in the markets had even pushed down art prices. “Today I received panic offers of blue chip (though not at all trophy) art at slashed prices,” he tweeted, saying this was further evidence of a liquidity squeeze.

California schools may not reopen before the end of the school year because of the coronavirus pandemic, Governor Gavin Newsom said. “Don’t anticipate schools are going to open up in a week” or a few weeks, Newsom said Tuesday in a press conference, adding people should anticipate few will reopen before summer break.

Follow us  @middleeast for more news on the region. Dubai’s hotel performance has worsened in recent months, as the coronavirus outbreak takes a toll on global and regional economies, according to preliminary data from STR Inc.

Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta appointed a military officer to run the nation’s capital, Nairobi, and rid the city of widespread corruption.





























































































With America’s coronavirus testing still in shambles, one county in Colorado has decided to take matters into its own hands. Public health officials in San Miguel County have teamed up with a biotech company called United Biomedical Inc. to collect blood samples for a new Covid-19 antibody test and provide free screenings to all 8,200 people in the area. The county is home to Telluride, a small, idyllic ski town normally packed with tourists. Now, though, it has followed many other areas around the country and adopted shelter-in-place procedures to try and limit the spread of the novel coronavirus that has triggered a global pandemic. Residents face a particularly high risk in the remote area, with a large population of seniors, and officials aren’t waiting for federal intervention.

The calls for monetary and fiscal stimulus amid the coronavirus crisis have been loud and clear -- and they’re increasingly being answered, at least to an extent. The latest measures include an $820 billion emergency bond-buying program from the European Central Bank and a virus-relief bill in the U.S., with a potential $1.3 trillion package following behind.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Drug trials on coronavirus patients in China yielded mixed results, with an HIV pill showing little benefit and a flu medication made by Fujifilm Holdings Corp. resulting in faster clearance of the virus.

Central banks stepped up their emergency efforts to calm financial markets and support their economies in a historic week of market losses as more of the world shuts down to contain the coronavirus outbreak. Meeting into their nights, policy makers at the Federal Reserve launched a program to support money market mutual funds, hours after those at the European Central Bank annonced a 750 billion euro ($820 billion) bond-buying initiative.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention deployed more than 100 experts across the continent and thousands of test kits to 43 countries to fight the spread of the coronavirus.

South Korea stocks resumed their declines after key gauges fell more than 8%, triggering circuit breakers for the second time in a week. The Kospi dropped 8.6% to its lowest level since 2009, and the tech-heavy Kosdaq lost 9.1% to its lowest since 2011 after the suspension was lifted at 12:25 p.m. in Seoul. Trading can be suspended again if the indexes drop more than 15%, and the market will shut down for the day if they fall 20%, the nation’s exchange said.

Sign up for Next China, a weekly email on where the nation stands now and where it's going next. Almost half of China’s listed consumer companies don’t have enough cash to survive another six months, underscoring the urgent task Beijing has to re-start its economy and get shoppers spending again.

The State Department raised its travel alert to Level 4 for the entire world, an unprecedented move aimed at keeping Americans from going overseas as the Trump administration tries to get control of the coronavirus. In a notice Thursday afternoon, the department said Americans who venture abroad may find their travel plans “severely disrupted” and “may be forced to remain outside of the United States for an indefinite timeframe.” Level 4 is the highest advisory in the State Department’s travel alert system and is normally reserved for countries in ‘a state of war such as Yemen and Somalia.

The U.K. is assessing whether the coronavirius pandemic sweeping across the globe could threaten its plans to convene a critical climate summit later this year.  There can no longer be a “cast iron guarantee” that the United Nations climate meeting will take place as scheduled in Glasgow this November, U.K. Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said.

For months, we had a running joke when we went out to eat: “Whose turn is it to read the menu to mom?” one of our daughters would tease. My wife, Adriana, had a habit of leaving her glasses in the car. “That’s what happens after you turn 40-something,” she’d say,  shaving a few years off her age, and I’d laugh. Then came the diagnosis. An MRI revealed a lesion pushing hard on Adriana’s optic nerve. A fluid-filled cyst, almost an inch long and shaped like a snowman, was growing in her pituitary gland. Without surgery, she could go blind.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Italy surpassed China as the country with the most coronavirus deaths, as its number of fatalities reached 3,405 and the pandemic’s global spread accelerates.

Some of the world’s largest coffee traders are bracing for supply-chain disruptions as the coronavirus pandemic threatens to cause delays to ports and other transport operations. Volcafe Ltd. told clients that logistical holdups are expected to become “more widespread” throughout major producing countries, according to a memo sent to clients. Sucafina SA encouraged buyers to place orders as soon as possible to ensure they receive their beans in time, the Swiss trader said in a separate memo.

All indoor portions of shopping malls as well as amusement parks, carnivals, zoos and playcenters will be closed in New York state starting at 8 p.m. Thursday. In an executive order Wednesday, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo joined Pennsylvania, Connecticut and New Jersey in closing the common portion of shopping malls. All places of public amusement, whether indoors or outdoors, will also be closed.

Australia and New Zealand are both closing their borders to non-residents as they step up their response to the coronavirus outbreak. Australia’s travel ban on non-residents and non-citizens will be in place from 9pm local time Friday, Prime Minister Scott Morrison told reporters in Canberra on Thursday. New Zealand’s measure comes into force at midnight tonight, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern told a press conference in Wellington.

Senate Republicans are looking to a 2008 tax rebate program as the template to deliver direct payments to individuals intended to boost consumer spending as economic activity contracts as a result of the coronavirus pandemic. The Senate is looking to quickly draft and pass legislation that could provide swift relief to businesses and individuals struggling as a result of businesses closing, schools shuttering and travel grinding to a halt. White House officials have said direct payments to Americans should be part of the next round of fiscal stimulus that could cost as much as $1.3 trillion.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Bank of England Governor Andrew Bailey said speculation that London could be put into lockdown added to this week’s wild swings in markets.

The chief executive of Swedbank AB says how the lender became mired in a massive money laundering scandal will soon be revealed by the bank’s own investigation. Jens Henriksson, CEO of the Stockholm-based bank since October, says the information may be available as soon as Monday.

President Donald Trump complained that the coronavirus outbreak “could have been stopped” in China, further escalating his dispute with Beijing as criticism mounts over his own effort to stem the disease’s expansion across the U.S. Trump aired his assessment -- a stark shift from his praise of Chinese leader Xi Jinping’s response last month -- at a news conference Thursday to discuss national outbreak-control efforts. The president again characterized the pathogen that causes Covid-19 as a “Chinese virus,” with the term “corona” crossed out with a marker in his prepared remarks and replaced with “Chinese.”

For airlines caught in the eye of the coronavirus storm, Canada’s second fiscal act can’t come soon enough. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s government promised that a plan to help the industry would follow an C$82 billion ($56.9 billion) aid package announced Tuesday. Airlines say he’d better hurry. Providing too little money, too late could prove fatal for some.

Leaders in the U.S. House are telling lawmakers to stay away from the Capitol until a massive stimulus package to deal with the coronavirus outbreak is ready for a vote, as members of Congress come face-to-face with the impact of the pandemic. House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer notified members Thursday that the chamber won’t resume its session until the Senate is done with its work on a massive economic stimulus measure and that voting procedures will be adjusted to follow recommendations of health officials.

After a halting start, governments and central banks have finally been coming to grips with the economic consequences of the coronavirus outbreak. The Covid-19 disease is more than a health crisis. What seemed like an alarmist scenario a month ago—a  global recession—now appears a certainty. And the extreme measures needed to limit infections may intensify the slump. Maurice Obstfeld, the International Monetary Fund’s former chief economist, says you’d have to be optimistic to believe we’re experiencing something akin to the recession caused by the financial crisis, when global output in 2009 shrank 0.1%, according to IMF data. As governments restrict travel and close restaurants while manufacturers prepare for temporary shutdowns, major economies are now experiencing a “hard stop,” which could inflict a toll that may be closer to the 9% contraction Greece endured at the height of its sovereign debt crisis, he says. “We are seeing a collapse of economic activity as countries try to get a handle on this disease,” Obstfeld says, pointing to the plunge in industrial production and consumption  in China as evidence of what lies ahead for Europe and the U.S. The extent of the damage, he says, will depend in large part on the scope and duration of the outbreak. But a lot relies on governments acting in unison to roll out aggressive measures that ease the pain for big businesses ( think airlines) as well as the little guy (your neighborhood  bartender). At the same time, central banks need to do everything in their power to prevent what began as a health crisis from morphing into a financial meltdown. After some foot-dragging, policymakers in Europe and the U.S. are swinging into action. Central banks have cut rates and enacted measures to ensure stressed markets continue to function. Following a  March 16 videoconference call, the leaders of the Group of Seven nations vowed to do “whatever is necessary” to protect lives as well as livelihoods. The statement echoed former European Central Bank President Mario Draghi’s 2012 vow, in the throes of the European debt crisis, to do “whatever it takes” to preserve the euro. But the G-7 declaration, which was replete with grand promises rather than tangible actions, didn’t spark a relief rally the way Draghi’s pledge did. The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down 13% on March 16, as  U.S. markets recorded their biggest single-day fall since the 1987 crash. That the G-7 statement came just hours after the U.S. Federal Reserve announced its  second emergency rate cut in 12 days raises an ominous question: What if this time whatever it takes is not enough? During the global financial crisis, much of the credit for preventing a slip from recession into depression went to the decisive actions of groupings such as the G-7 and G-20, which repeatedly signaled their resolve to eschew protectionism and beggar-thy-neighbor policies like currency devaluations. More than a decade later, it’s plain to see that the bonds among historical allies have been frayed by the trade wars and heightened mistrust—which risks taking the response to the present crisis down a dangerous nationalist path. By calling SARS-CoV-2 a “Chinese virus” and abruptly imposing travel restrictions on visitors from China and Europe, President Trump has further strained those relationships. Chinese officials have complained of unfair discrimination and ordered the  expulsion of American journalists. The Europeans, who were irritated that  Washington hadn’t consulted with them on the travel ban, introduced their  own restrictions a few days later, and a raft of other countries including  Canada have followed suit. Another factor working against a concerted effort is that the U.S.—and Trump, a self-proclaimed anti-globalist—presently holds the rotating presidency of the G-7. It doesn’t help either that Saudi Arabia, which is at the helm of the G-20, has decided to wage a  destabilizing price war against U.S. shale oil producers. “Right now I don’t think—given the Trump presidency—anyone imagines the G-7 or the G-20 as an effective coordinating device for a response to this crisis,” says Adam Tooze, a Columbia University economic historian and the author of Crashed, an account of the 2008 crisis. “The only way to put this is it’s quite disillusioning.”  Data: Compiled by Bloomberg  It’s not just the Americans and the Saudis who could undermine attempts at collective action. In what Obstfeld calls a “Europe First” moment, the European Union recently banned exports of face masks and other protective gear to countries outside the bloc. Although the move was meant to ease the flow of precious supplies within the EU, it was also evidence of something potentially more corrosive. “It’s not surprising that after three years of President Trump tearing down international cooperation the Europeans would not have a lot of trust in any sort of U.S. leadership role or be willing to put their interests at the mercy of international cooperation,” says Obstfeld, who’s now at the University of California at Berkeley. “But it’s really sad, and it doesn’t bode well for the future and trust between countries once we as individual nations get through this panic.” There are signs that such tussling may be only just beginning. Die Welt am Sonntag and other German media reported on May 15 that the Trump administration had sought to acquire a German company developing a coronavirus treatment to secure its sole use for the U.S., prompting an intervention by Berlin. Tooze and others see in that a portent of a bigger fight to come, one that will likely take the trade restrictions from the realm of safety equipment into the far more challenging arena of intellectual property and medicines that pharmaceutical companies are racing to develop. “The major players are acting as if their interests are not aligned,” says Daniel Drezner, a Tufts University political scientist. That is one of the major ways in which this crisis is different from 2008, says Drezner, author of The System Worked: How the World Stopped Another Great Depression. Then, national interests were both interlinked by globalization and aligned in stopping a meltdown of the financial system. The economic model being tested—free-market liberalism—was also not facing the same assault from populist alternatives such as Trump’s “America First” brand of capitalism. Although many expect the current economic shock to be short and sharp, there are also concerns that it may have other, longer-lasting consequences. At the Institute of International Finance, chief economist Robin Brooks and his team have been tracking huge outflows of money from emerging markets that could trigger old-fashioned balance-of-payments crises similar to the ones that engulfed Mexico and most of Asia in the 1990s. Brooks also frets that governments in developed economies are moving too tentatively and on parallel tracks, which will dilute the potency of measures to offset the downturn. “We need with greater urgency globally a fiscal response, and it needs to be coordinated,” he says. “There’s no reasons for delay now. We know this thing is coming, and it is coming hard.” In December 2008 the IMF’s managing director, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, pushed for a coordinated global effort by governments to spend an additional 2% of global gross domestic product, or $1.2 trillion, and economists increasingly say something of the same order is needed now. As of March 17 governments had announced stimulus measures adding up to just under $3 trillion, or 3% of global GDP. Included in that total is a $1.3 trillion package proposed by the Trump administration that will still have to get through a divided Congress in an election year. While financial markets have been underwhelmed by the response so far, it’s worth remembering that the U.S. had been in recession for almost a year by the time the G-20 nations convened in Washington in November 2008 to coordinate policies in the aftermath of the global financial crisis. “If we had that amount of time with the coronavirus, we’d feel pretty lucky,” says Tooze. Today, “the sheer pace is staggering.” Obstfeld says the sudden stop in economic activity hitting Europe and the U.S. now looks a lot like an accelerated version of what happens in a classic emerging-market crisis when countries abruptly lose access to capital markets. Which is why he worries the world’s biggest economies may be about to experience a Greece-like shock, with all its consequences, from sharply rising inequality to a realignment of the political order. An inadequate policy response—with less fiscal stimulus than needed and the erection of more barriers to trade—would mean a contraction that could be deeper and longer than the one the U.S. suffered in the Great Recession. An adequate one may mean a rapid recovery and avoiding the economic doldrums that followed the last crisis. “That,” Obstfeld says, “would require a lot more coordination between countries.”

Stocks in Asia tumbled anew as anxiety about global recession grips investors. Circuit breakers were set off in multiple markets even as global governments and central banks are seen taking unprecedented measures to stem a public health crisis. Trading halts were triggered from Manila and Jakarta to Seoul and Karachi. Shares in the Philippines tanked as much as 24% after resuming trading from a two-day shutdown, spurring the exchange to review its circuit breaker rules. The country’s benchmark index pared losses to close down 13%, a record fall. South Korea’s Kospi fell as much as 9.5%, while Indonesian benchmark plunged 5% before tripping a suspension for the fourth time in six days.

Inadequate policies, a chilling environment and distrust of dissenters enabled a pattern of misconduct by the former president of the largest U.S. federal workers union, according to a report released Thursday. Last month, J. David Cox, the president of the American Federation of Government Employees,  resigned after allegations of sexual harassment reported last fall by Bloomberg News. An independent investigation by the group Working Ideal out today has now also found “substantial evidence” that Cox subjected multiple AFGE employees to “conduct of a sexual nature and other inappropriate behavior.”

European shares gained the most since June 2016 after the region’s central bank unveiled a massive new bond-buying program and President Christine Lagarde signaled there’s “no limit” to the bank’s commitment to the euro. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 2.9% at the close of trading. Italy’s FTSE MIB climbed 2.3% as the country’s bonds led euro-area gains and the Swiss Market Index gained the most since November 2008. Among sectors, telecom and food-and-drink shares led gains.

The German Economy Ministry is in talks with the country’s startup association about finding ways to support early stage companies so they can survive amid the turbulence created by the coronavirus. “We need to deliver within the next four weeks, otherwise we will see an onslaught of companies running out of cash,” Christian Miele, president of the German startup association, said by phone.

The accelerating coronavirus pandemic will throw Latin America’s largest economies into recession this year, as slowing trade, plunging tourism and lock-down protocols undercut activity. Economists from Credit Suisse Group AG to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are sharply reducing their estimates for the region. Goldman Sachs slashed its forecast for growth in Latin America this year and now expects a contraction of 1.2%. Credit Suisse now sees a region wide recession of 1.5%. Bank of America economists forecast the region will contract 1.6% in a Thursday note.

U.S. consumers’ economic expectations sank in March by the most since the depths of the last recession as the coronavirus pandemic tightened its grip on businesses across the country and rattled financial markets. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort monthly gauge slumped 11 percentage points, the sharpest retreat since October 2008, to 46.5, figures showed on Thursday. March sentiment stands in sharp contrast to the previous month, when the index improved to the highest level more than a year.

Greece will ramp up the amount of money it will throw at the economy to counter the effects of coronavirus. The government will spend another 3 billion euros ($3.2 billion) on top of the 3.8 billion euros already announced, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said in televised address. The country will also tap 3 billion euros from the European Union’s long-term budget, taking total funds to about 10 billion euros, he said.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Four of the world’s leading airlines laid bare the devastation the coronavirus is inflicting on travel, with three major carriers parking nearly 2,000 planes and Qantas Airways Ltd. temporarily laying off close to 30,000 staff in some of the industry’s deepest cuts to date.

Seth Klarman is bargain hunting. The value investor told clients this week that Baupost Group has spent about $1.5 billion scooping up assets in recent weeks, according to a person familiar with the matter. Amid the carnage caused by the fears around the coronavirus pandemic, he’s seeking more commitments for his hedge fund for the first time since 2011, said the person, who asked not to be named because the discussions aren’t public.

Chile’s government is pouring money into the economy, ditching its hard-won reputation for fiscal prudence as it tackles the dual impact of the coronavirus outbreak and months of social unrest. President Sebastian Pinera announced an $11.75 billion stimulus package Thursday, the biggest in Chile’s history, as authorities close the borders, schools and universities to slow the spread of the disease. The package is equivalent to 4.7% of gross domestic product and will widen an already burgeoning fiscal deficit.

Carnival Corp. is making its cruise ships available as floating hospitals to help relieve stress on the health-care system, an offer that President Donald Trump said he would discuss with governors. In remarks Thursday, Trump said he had received the offer from Carnival Chairman Micky Arison. The company said later in a statement that ships could be quickly turned into hospitals with as many as 1,000 beds. The idea would be to treat non-Covid-19 patients, freeing up hospitals to address the pandemic.

Millennium Management has closed several of its “pods” run by teams of traders, the latest sign of hedge funds struggling to deal with the impact of this month’s market meltdown. Around 10 teams of traders are affected, according to a person familiar with the matter. An array of firms including those run Ray Dalio and Stephen Cohen have reported losses this year. Malachite Capital Management, a firm that oversees about $600 million, said it plans to wind down.

New Zealand’s government has advised citizens not to travel overseas due to the coronavirus and said those already offshore should consider coming home immediately. “We are raising our travel advice to the highest level: do not travel,” Foreign Minister Winston Peters said in a statement. “This is the first time the New Zealand government has advised New Zealanders against traveling anywhere overseas. That reflects the seriousness of the situation we are facing with COVID-19.”

The new coronavirus pandemic that is sharply curtailing Americans’ activities may soon limit field inspections from the EPA and Army Corps of Engineers, former federal officials say. Over time the national self-quarantine “would obviously start to cramp inspections as everyone is being advised to avoid social contact,” said Eric Schaeffer, the former director of EPA’s Office of Civil Enforcement under the Clinton and George W. Bush administrations.

An air-traffic controller at the Las Vegas McCarran International Airport tower tested positive for Covid-19, prompting the closing of the facility and a dramatic reduction in the rate of flights. The controller was found to have the virus Wednesday, the Federal Aviation Administration said in a statement on Thursday. As of 9:08 a.m. local time, airlines had canceled 463 flights to and from the airport, or more than 35%, according to the flight-tracking website FlightAware.

Amazon.com Inc. revealed an employee working at one of its Queens, New York shipping facilities has contracted Covid-19, the first infection reported in a U.S. delivery network that’s become a lifeline of essentials for consumers sheltering at home. Amazon temporarily closed the warehouse near LaGuardia Airport -- sending workers home with full pay -- so it can be cleaned and sanitized. The confirmed case was in an Amazon “delivery station,” much smaller than a so-called fulfillment center where thousands of employees work with robots to pack and ship orders. Amazon did not disclose how many people work at the Queens facility.

U.S. investment-grade funds lost a record $35.6 billion this week, an unprecedented figure that dwarfs the fact that borrowers gave the primary market another shot of life Thursday. The sum for the week ended March 18 blows through the previous record outflow of $7.3 billion from last week, according to Refinitiv Lipper. It’s almost hard to remember that seven issuers successfully brought new deals Thursday with such a massive figure reported later in the afternoon.

With the number of confirmed coronavirus cases in South Africa breaching the 200 mark and set to climb, the authorities said they are desperately trying to slow the disease’s spread to avoid swamping the health-care system. The proportion of the population that could be infected “can go to about 60%,” Health Minister Zweli Mkhize told reporters in the central city of Bloemfontein on Friday. “It doesn’t mean those people are going to die, it doesn’t mean all of them are going to get it at the same time, it doesn’t mean we’ve now got an apocalypse.”

Members of the U.S. House are being told not to return to the Capitol until the Senate finishes its work on a massive economic stimulus package responding to the coronavirus pandemic, according to an official familiar with the plans. The action comes as two members of the House have disclosed they’ve tested positive for the virus and numerous others are in self-imposed quarantines.

Former chief White House economist Glenn Hubbard said the U.S. may be headed into a depression unless the government takes drastic action to shower small businesses with cash and replace demand lost by the economy’s sudden stop. With everything from neighborhood restaurants to sports stadiums closing in an effort to contain the coronavirus, the economy faces the threat of a “demand doom loop” that could lead to an economic contraction akin to that suffered in the 1930s, according to Hubbard.

The White House’s top economic adviser, Larry Kudlow, said the administration may consider asking for an equity stake in corporations that want coronavirus aid from taxpayers. “One of the ideas is, if we provide assistance, we might take an equity position,” Kudlow said Wednesday at the White House, adding that the 2008 bailout of General Motors had been a good deal for the federal government.

A Senate Republican proposal responding to the fast-spreading economic devastation from the Covid-19 outbreak includes $58 billion for loans to airlines that have seen traffic plummet, but comes with conditions that could ensure they continue providing service. Passenger carriers would get $50 billion in loans and loan guarantees, while cargo haulers would be eligible for $8 billion.

Follow Bloomberg on  Telegram for all the investment news and analysis you need. Indian liquefied natural gas buyers, which have helped soak up a global glut, are re-examining their spot buying plans as the collapse in oil prices may make other fuels more attractive.

One of the biggest selloffs in the history of Europe’s carbon emissions market stoked record trading in futures and put options as the economic impact of the coronavirus worsened. As futures crashed through once-remote option strike prices, investors who’d previously sold puts needed to lay off the risk by selling futures. As prices kept falling, managing the hedge would typically involve selling more futures, and steepening what turned out to be the biggest three-day rout in the market for seven years.

Venezuelan business leaders and Nicolas Maduro’s government are putting some of their differences aside as they discuss how to prevent catastrophic shortages as the coronavirus pandemic brings daily life to a halt. In meetings at the presidential palace and the finance ministry on Sunday, Maduro’s representatives asked a group of senior business people with help keeping production going during the crisis. In return, they requested measures including delayed payment of income tax, value-added tax and customs fees. In some cases, they are also seeking help paying workers’ salaries, according to three people who participated in the talks.

President Donald Trump declared himself a “wartime president” on Wednesday, his latest attempt to influence public perception of his handling of a coronavirus outbreak that is swiftly reshaping the presidential campaign. It came on the same day that the stock market nearly erased all the gains since Trump was inaugurated. The Dow Jones Industrial Average has lost more than 30% of its value in just over a month, putting the rally that began on Election Day in jeopardy. The S&P 500 fell as much as 9.8% on Wednesday before a late-session bounce, and bonds tumbled around the world.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Divorce court is about to go online in Britain.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government is considering taking steps that would declare a state of emergency, a move that would permit unlimited borrowing to help stem fallout from the coronavirus.

Welcome to Friday, Asia. Here’s the latest news and analysis from Bloomberg Economics to help take you through to the weekend:

Gun-retailer stocks are outperforming as more people swarm to firearm and ammunition stores in response to pandemic-related fears. “This is the second time in the store’s 61 years that we’ve seen this. It has only happened after Sandy Hook,” said Larry Hyatt, owner of Hyatt Guns in North Carolina, which bills itself as America’s largest gun shop.

Why is credit under pressure once more? Mainly because the decade since the global financial crisis has not been the “Decade of Deleveraging” that many expected. Banks have delevered since then, but that debt largely has moved to governments and other corporates, both of which are far more heavily levered than they were in 2008. Household debt remains essentially unchanged. That explains why corporate credit is bearing the brunt of concerns this time — even the highest-quality corporate names. The yield spread that companies rated BAA or better by Moody’s must offer compared with Treasuries has shot up in recent days to the highest since 2012.

Follow Bloomberg on LINE messenger for all the business news and analysis you need. Indonesia’s central bank cut its benchmark interest rate for a second straight month and slashed its economic growth forecast, joining global policy makers seeking to shore up their economies amid the coronavirus crisis.

Follow Bloomberg on  Telegram for all the investment news and analysis you need. m

President Donald Trump’s re-election effort maintained its financial advantage over the Democratic Party in February, filings at the Federal Election Commission show. The Republican National Committee ended the month with $76.8 million cash on hand after raising $26.2 million, more than double the $12 million brought in by the Democratic National Committee. It ended the month with $14.1 million in the bank.

Brooke Young was driving by the library she manages in Salt Lake City when she saw two teens huddled by the staff door trying to access the building’s free Wi-Fi on their phones. The county, like several others across the U.S., had shut down all public facilities, including libraries, to curb the spread of coronavirus. And Utah Governor Gary Herbet had announced a “soft closure” of all K-12 public schools, with the option for districts to resume class online. But getting online for class will be hard for kids in Young’s Glendale neighborhood, where residents are largely immigrant, of lower income, or part of the refugee community. “We’re in a historically underserved community, and it has the lowest rate of internet-at-home in the city,” she says. Many students would typically do their homework at the library. With libraries closed, both the Wi-Fi inside and the hotspot devices they lend out are no longer available. Tens of millions of public schools students in the U.S. are out of class this week due to the Covid-19 outbreak, according to Education Week. At least 40 states enacted statewide closures, and individual school districts in the remaining states have also announced shutdowns. Most schools are saying they will be closed for at least two weeks; Kansas became the first state to order its schools not to reopen for the remainder of the academic year. For many of the more than 100,000 schools closed, teachers are moving their classes online. But not all students can take advantage because of the lack of technology at home, a disparity known as the homework gap. Some 15% of households with school-age children don’t have internet at home, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of 2015 census data. And in a separate 2018 survey of 13- to 17-year-olds, 1 in 5 teens told Pew researchers that they often or sometimes can’t complete assignments because they don’t have reliable access to the internet or a computer. Both reports found that affected students are more likely to be from low-income and minority families. Without a sound contingency plan to get all students connected, already-disadvantaged youth will fall even further behind over the next several weeks, says Angela Siefer, executive director of the National Digital Inclusion Alliance. “The inequities in all our education systems are going to be even worse,” she says. “The kids whose families do have internet connection are going to have at least some learning continuing during this period, and the kids who don’t won’t.” It’s not just about taking online classes: With libraries and recreation centers closed, and seating restricted at cafes and restaurants that offer free Wi-Fi, students miss out on a host of online resources that can at least partially help make up for missed school days. The disparity speaks to the larger digital divide in the U.S., the impact of which is now exacerbated by waves of business and public-space closures, and by officials’ urges for residents to stay home. The Federal Communications Commission estimates that 19 million Americans lack fixed broadband access simply because their neighborhoods don’t have the physical infrastructure to connect, though one report argues that because of faulty metrics, the true number may be more than double the official figure. And 2017 data from the Department of Commerce shows that some 22 million households don’t have internet because they can’t afford it or don’t need it. Of those, 6 million households say it’s too expensive, and a quarter of those have school-age children at home. CityLab mapped this lack of internet access by school district, based on 2015 census data: One of the least-connected school districts on this map is the rural Red Mesa Unified District in Arizona, where the majority of students are Native American. More than 80% — nearly 1,700 households — don’t have internet access, according to 2015 census data. But it’s not just a problem for rural communities: In Laredo Independent School District in the city of Laredo, Texas, nearly 14,000 households, or 53%, don’t have internet access. In fact, NDIA estimates that some 15 million Americans without internet access live in urban and suburban communities, making up the majority of the digitally disconnected. And whereas rural communities lack adequate physical infrastructure to access the internet, the challenge among poor urban families is more often broadband adoption. Some families rely only on their smartphones and data plans. “It’s not that the mobile phone is superior; it’s that you have to choose,” Siefer says. “And if your budget is already having a hard time with any service plans, you’re going to choose the one that can go with you.” The 2018 Pew survey found that 1 in 4 teens in households making less than $30,000 don’t have a computer at home. But even one computer may not be enough to be shared among parents and their kids. With shutdowns expected to drag on for weeks, if not months, broadband and telecommunication companies have significantly expanded access to their services as part of the FCC’s Keep Americans Connected Pledge. Both Charter and Comcast are opening up their Wi-Fi hotspots for public use and offering free plans to new customers in low-income households or who live with students. “Kudos to the broadband providers stepping up to help during this time,” FCC Commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel said in a statement, though she urged the agency to go further and make hotspot loans available to all students. Education officials and teachers, meanwhile, are scrambling. Philadelphia announced Wednesday that its school district won’t offer remote learning, with superintendent William R. Hite Jr. specifically citing inequity as the main reason. The majority of the district’s 200,000 public school students come from low-income families. “If that’s not available to all children, we cannot make it available to some,” he said at a news conference. Some districts are better prepared than others to offer distance learning. In Kansas City, Kansas, schools will begin handing out devices acquired from their ongoing partnership with Sprint through its 1 Million Project. “We’re going to doing some bookkeeping, making sure that they’re all charged and ready for pickup,” says superintendent Charles Foust. Families who need internet can also pick up hotspot devices and get free service through the internet provider Spectrum. In South Bend, Indiana, officials are turning 20 unused school buses into traveling hotspots and will send them to more than 30 different sites every day except Sunday. Students can access the Wi-Fi within 300 feet of one — bus drivers will stop near parks and other open spaces — using the Chromebooks schools handed out earlier in the year. Teachers in other cities have sent kids home with packets and workbooks while officials try to procure the necessary devices. In New York City, home to the nation’s largest public school system, 300,000 students lack electronic devices at home. The education department is hoping to purchase and deliver at least 25,000 iPads through a partnership with Apple, while also training its 80,000 teachers on how to make virtual lesson plans. Some districts are still trying to figure out who needs help. The nonprofit Connect For Good provides discounted and sometimes-free refurbished devices to low-income families in Kansas City, Missouri. CEO Tom Esselman says they need to prioritize families with children, but first, they have to figure out who they are. “Not just cities, but also individual school districts and administrators have not taken seriously the issue of how many families are really truly affected by the lack of access,” he says. Currently the Kansas City chapter of NDIA has set up a form on its website asking people to describe what exactly they need. The group Leanlab Education has also sent out a survey tool for schools to start collecting data on things like the number of children, the level of internet access, and the number of devices each family has. The first report with aggregated data is set to come out Monday and will help coalition members like Esselman better coordinate their efforts. Esselman is frustrated that it took a pandemic to expose how critical digital inclusion is when advocates like him have been trying to raise awareness for at least the last five years. “We’ve said from day one that Wi-Fi connectivity should be viewed the same as electricity and running water, but because of the economic and commercial implications, we felt like we were years away from that,” he says. “But, oh boy, this crisis is making it appear now why we might get there sooner than later.” CORRECTION: This article has been updated to correct the location of the 20 free Wi-Fi buses. It is South Bend, Indiana.

Wells Fargo & Co. will halt residential property foreclosure sales, evictions and involuntary automobile repossessions in response to the coronavirus pandemic. The San Francisco-based bank also will assist borrowers with fee waivers, payment deferrals and other considerations upon request, according to a statement on Friday. It plans $175 million in charitable donations tied to the crisis.

Want the lowdown on what's moving European markets in your inbox every morning? Sign up here. Good morning. Cornavirus fatalities are rising in Europe while some Asian regions deal with a second wave of infections. Oil prices surged and stock futures are pointing higher. Here’s what’s moving markets.

A cluster of coronavirus cases has emerged in Australia after 31 people who attended a wedding tested positive to the virus before passing it on to another 4 contacts. The New South Wales state health department said all attendees would now be required to quarantine themselves until March 20 due to the high level of exposure at the wedding in Stanwell Tops, a beachside town south of Sydney, on March 6.

Sign up for Bloomberg’s daily technology newsletter here. Venture capital is one of the world’s most networked industries. But with the Bay Area on lockdown, many of tech’s biggest investors are now physically isolated and sheltering in place, or in more rural locales.

President Donald Trump said Friday that loan payments on federally-held student loans could be suspended for 60 days without penalty as the economy is hit by the coronavirus. He also said the federal government would waive requirements for standardized tests of school-aged children as schools have been shuttered in many states.

The Federal Reserve, along with central banks in Europe, Japan, the U.K., Canada and Switzerland, announced a coordinated action Friday to beef up dollar liquidity swap line arrangements in another move designed to keep dollar liquidity ample around the world. The move will take effect Monday, March 23 and will continue at least through the end of April.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Richard Burr called for an ethics investigation into his own sale of stock, and that of three other U.S. senators, after they received sensitive briefings in late January about the emerging threat of the coronavirus.

Flagstar Bancorp, one of the nation’s biggest lenders to mortgage providers, has stopped funding most new home loans without government backing. The move, announced to its customers on Friday, deprives the housing market of one of the country’s 10 largest so-called warehouse lenders. Other lenders that make non-traditional mortgages to households will no longer be able to borrow from Troy, Michigan-based Flagstar to originate those home loans. Those who borrow from Flagstar to make larger government-backed mortgages will be able to get only 95% of the mortgage amount.

In a sign of these coronavirus times, Michael Preysman is trying to keep his company running smoothly -- from his Bay Area kitchen. The chief executive officer of mid-size apparel brand Everlane closed the company’s San Francisco headquarters as the city went on lockdown. And now he just finished talking to a few of the nearly three dozen factories around the world that make the company’s shirts, shoes and handbags. There’s good news: They aren’t expecting major slowdowns. And so far Preysman hasn’t had to lay off any employees, even though sales are declining.

A few years ago, Marc Rosenberg was trying to figure out what to do with his life after a career marketing toys for the likes of Hasbro Inc. He fancied himself an inventor, but of what? Rosenberg discovered just what when he stepped into his daughter’s college dorm and saw her roommates on their beds, typing away on laptops. They barely used their desks because they said they were uncomfortable. An idea was born, and after crowdfunding about $500,000, Rosenberg in 2016 launched the Edge Desk, an adjustable pop-up workspace with cushioned seats that now sells for $400.Almost overnight, the pandemic has created a booming work-from-home economy, and Rosenberg’s business jumped eight-fold in the past few weeks.“It's been crazy,” said Rosenberg, who has just one full-time employee besides himself. “We’re managing the best we can.”

















































































We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Australian authorities urged hundreds of passengers allowed to disembark a cruise ship in Sydney on Thursday to self isolate, after four people on board tested positive for the coronavirus.

General Motors Co. is forming a collaborative venture with Ventec Life Systems Inc. to help the company increase production of its ventilators that are used to treat patients with Covid-19, GM said in a statement. The Detroit automaker will provide Ventec with logistics, purchasing and manufacturing expertise as the Seattle-based company moves to increase production. The ventilators will be built in Ventec plants, not GM’s, said a spokesman for the carmaker.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The Swiss government wants to unlock a further 32 billion francs ($33 billion) in aid, increasing its support to the equivalent of 6% of economic output to help struggling businesses through the coronavirus crisis.

Argentina imposed a nationwide lockdown to stem the coronavirus pandemic, marking one of the strictest measures taken by any Latin American nation. Starting Friday, citizens are only permitted to leave their homes for essential services such as supermarkets and pharmacies, President Alberto Fernandez said. The lockdown, which will be enforced by security forces, lasts until March 31.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. A.P Moller-Maersk A/S, the world’s biggest shipping line, said it’s committed to rewarding shareholders and reassured the public that its own operations were uninterrupted by the fallout of the coronavirus.

Welcome to the Brussels Edition, Bloomberg’s daily briefing on what matters most in the heart of the European Union. Sign up here to get it in your inbox every weekday morning. Cases of coronavirus may still be spiraling and markets swinging wildly, but European Central Bank President Christine Lagarde has thrown EU leaders  a valuable lifeline. She’s effectively handed them a 750 billion-euro check to prevent the illness-induced quarantines sending the region’s economy into free fall, and potentially splintering the currency bloc in the process. Though it clearly doesn’t provide an antidote to the virus itself, the move gives much-needed leeway for governments  to spend money, at minimal cost, and cushion their populations from the worst of the fallout. For now, at least.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Britain is fighting the coronavirus from a position of fiscal strength, with new figures showing the budget deficit under firm control prior to the crisis.

Stephane, a 32-year-old financier in Manhattan, recently updated his Bumble profile to read: “Healthy male with a strong immune system and robust Purell supply.” He got a quick reply from a New York woman, who fired back a private message: “Tell me your secret—how did you get a robust Purell supply? I had to fight a woman at the grocery store for a can of tuna.” While it was good to hear from another human being, Stephane never responded. Because, well, Covid-19. The novel coronavirus that causes the malady has infected more than 200,000 people around the world and ushered in a fraught new era of online dating. Millennials, trapped under indefinite work-from-home policies and banned from bars, are on dating apps—swiping, texting, flirting—more so than before. Active users rose 8% on Bumble during the second week of March in the U.S., according to App Annie, which tracks downloads. The big question is how long that will last now that courting in the real world is basically verboten. Dating apps typically run on a freemium model, providing basic services without charge in the hopes that customers will pay more for extra features, such as unveiling who has swiped right on you or applying more granular filters to narrow the dating pool. As social distancing guidelines are rolled out across the U.S. and Europe, dating apps are betting more people will sign up and pay extra to find love—even if it’s virtual for the time being. The bullish view on Wall Street is that users will be willing to spend more time and money on dating apps because they’ve got nothing better to do. The bearish take is they’ll stop paying for extra services because the thought of being within breathing distance of a stranger is more scary than sexy. This month, Brent Thill, an analyst with Jeffries, cut his annual revenue growth forecast from 16% to 9% for Match Group Inc., which owns some of the most popular dating apps in the world including Tinder, OkCupid and Hinge. The shares have fallen 30% over the past month, in line with the S&P 500 Index. “The big challenge right now is, who wants to go on a date with someone they don’t know,” Thill says. “If I was single, I wouldn’t want to date anyone right now.” No one really knows how to responsibly date in a pandemic. Some apps are advising couples to meet in open spaces and avoid any form of physical contact; others are suggesting a safer, more sanitary solution: phone sex. “We know it can be a drag being cooped up inside, but there are lots of other ways to have fun: sexting or phone/video sex are great ways to get hot without getting sick,” the dating app #Open, aimed at couples in open relationships, sent in a message to its 50,000 users on Monday. “This isn’t a good time to be swapping spit.” Last week, New York Mayor Bill de Blasio was asked how daters should respond to the disaster. That question “goes to the heart of the matter,” de Blasio said, adding that people cannot get to a point of hopelessness right now. “I do think it’s fine to have a social life, but you’ve got to exercise some smart rules. If you're sick, don’t go on a date. If the date is sick, don’t go on the date.” He suggested keeping a little more distance and said it would be wise even to refrain from kissing one another on the cheek. On Sunday, physically dating in the Big Apple became near impossible as officials closed down restaurants, bars and movie theaters as well as urging residents to stick to strict social distancing guidelines. “People are feeling isolated, particularly those who are single and can’t go home to their parents and families,” says Jordana Abraham, co-founder of Ship, a dating app that allows friends to swipe on behalf of its users. “They are physically isolated, but not socially isolated.” Ship says group chat messages exploded 60% nationwide in the past week. Group messages first started ramping up in Seattle when social distancing rules were enforced. They skyrocketed in New York shortly after similar rules were put in place—with messages more than doubling in frequency in the past seven days alone. OkCupid has also reported surging engagement and messaging among millennials. People are talking more through the app—and they are talking about coronavirus. OkCupid saw a 188% increase in coronavirus mentions on dating profiles between January and February. People being people, cringeworthy virus pickup lines are starting to proliferate. As in: “Are you the coronavirus? Because you take my breath away.” And random hookups are fast being replaced with weeks-long virtual courting, complete with cootie paranoia and forced chivalry.  You know who’s really gonna suffer during this social distancing? Dudes on dating apps Welcome back to courtship, Brad. Welcome back to talking to a gal for WEEKS prior to meeting.We’re pen pals now, my dude.We bout to get Jane Austen up in here. Now, write me a poem. The coronavirus itself even has a mock dating profile, which tells users its hometown is Wuhan, China—the epicenter of the outbreak—and that its major turn-offs are face masks and doctors. Match hasn’t yet revised its forecasts. The Dallas-based company is monitoring the situation “but can’t comment definitively on what impact we are seeing,” a company spokesperson says. Its star performer, Tinder, is also mum on member activity. However, the app, synonymous with a “hookup culture” on college campuses, is urging users to be cautious. “While we want you to continue to have fun, protecting yourself from the coronavirus is more important,” Tinder told to its 5.9 million global subscribers, advising that they wash their hands frequently, carry hand sanitizer, avoid touching their faces and maintain social distance in public. Amsterdam-based The Inner Circle was created for working professionals willing to pay a premium to attend exclusive events, such as cocktail-making classes, jazz nights and ski trips, to meet verified matches. Co-founder Michael Krayenhoff says the virus has presented a wholly unromantic dilemma for the business. “We had to make a decision as a company to cancel all our events and refund everyone,” he says.As the pandemic worsened, Inner Circle members began turning to phone calls and video chats. During the first week of March, they were exchanging phone numbers and sending messages about “FaceTime” and “Skype” about 30% more often than a month earlier. This led the company to actively promote virtual dating ideas like “Self-Isolate and Chill,” a play on “Netflix and chill,” a euphemism for sex. “It’s about two people putting on the same television program at the same time, then calling to talk about it as they watch,” Krayenhoff says. “I think that has something very exciting or romantic to it.” — With assistance by Sarah Syed, and Crystal Kim

Imagine U.S. President Donald Trump makes a deal with Saudi Arabia and Russia to cut oil production. Envisage Washington, Moscow and Riyadh going big, each cutting by one million barrels a day. Bullish, right? Now come back to the reality of today’s oil market, where demand is collapsing -- some traders say by 10 to 20 million barrels a day, or a fifth of global consumption -- as millions find themselves in lock-down or self-isolating, causing travel to grind to a halt.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The governors of New Jersey, New York, Connecticut and Pennsylvania urged the federal government to consider a fiscal stimulus of at least $100 billion in direct cash to all four states to help cover costs related to coronavirus response operations.

A group of workers from Walmart Inc., Amazon.com Inc. and other big retailers demanded paid leave for those affected by the coronavirus outbreak and better protective measures from their employers. The group, United for Respect, held a media call Friday with U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren, who said 80% of retail employees have been left out of federal relief packages that include paid sick time. “Grocery and retail workers are the lifeblood of the American economy and we need to support them,” the former Democratic presidential candidate said.

Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Deloitte LLP agreed to a 150 million rand ($8.6 million) settlement with South Africa’s state-owned power utility to end a dispute over the pricing of contracts.

Deutsche Bank AG nominated Theodor Weimer to its board of directors, a move that positions the head of the German stock exchange as a potential successor to Chairman Paul Achleitner. Weimer, 60, is seen as a contender to eventually take over as chairman, according to person familiar with the matter. Achleitner, who has drawn the ire of shareholders because of the long decline in the lender’s share price, intends to see out the remaining two years of his term, the person said, asking not to be identified as the matter is private.

North Korea appears to have fired two short-range ballistic missiles into the sea shared with Japan, hours after leader Kim Jong Un oversaw a military exercise. South Korea said it had detected the projectiles fired from North Pyongan Province near the West Sea and that they traveled 410 kilometers (255 miles). Japan’s coast guard confirmed that the projectiles fell outside of its exclusive economic zone, while its Minister of Defense Taro Kono said the launches may be linked with the coronavirus pandemic, serving as a move by North Korea to tighten internal order and control.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. A week after Washington state requested a fresh shipment of protective medical gear from the federal government’s emergency stockpile, it hadn’t been approved.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Even as its neighbors and countries around the world are aggressively shutting down restaurants, bars, theaters and other non-essential businesses to contain the spread of the coronavirus, Singapore is boldly resisting that move.

Finland was once again crowned as the world’s happiest country, extending its lead over Denmark and Switzerland, according to a United Nations-affiliated research network. Finnish contentment stems from high levels of trust, which also underpins solid rankings across the rest of the Nordic region, the Sustainable Development Solutions Network said in the World Happiness Report on Friday.

Food delivery continues to be a rare bright spot in harrowing economic times. Orders last week at grocery delivery service Instacart Inc. were up more than 150% compared with the same period a year earlier, according to a source close to the company who asked not to be named discussing private business details. In China, when Covid-19 was bearing down hardest, Beijing Missfresh Ecommerce Co, another grocery delivery service, saw revenue grow 205% compared to a year earlier, one of its investors said. The spike in demand is visible across the board. Pizza delivery companies are putting up job postings. Uber Technologies Inc. is transitioning ride-hailing drivers to its Uber Eats service. Companies like DoorDash Inc. and GrubHub Inc. are slashing or delaying their fees to restaurants in an effort to keep the hot-meals flowing. Matt Maloney, the CEO of GrubHub, said his company is receiving more new registrations from restaurants than it can process.

In the early days of the U.S.’s coronavirus response, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention advised everyone to steer clear of crowds and wash their hands more, urging “older adults” especially to stock up on food and medicine in case things got worse. The news from China was that Covid-19 had been more fatal among people who had underlying health conditions, and who were over 65 years old. The first wave of public health admonitions emphasized that strict social distancing measures were necessary to protect the vulnerable elderly. But younger people, as is now well known, are hardly immune: Not only can heathy young adults be asymptomatic carriers that become vectors of the virus to parents and grandparents, they can also be victims of it; about a quarter of Covid-19 patients hospitalized in Italy are under 50. Still, the lingering presumption that coronavirus is merely a disease of “old” people is having damaging consequences — witness, for example, the extremely poor social distancing adherence among Spring Breakers on the beaches of Florida this week. The calculus of pandemic suppression — and arguably, being a person in the world — means that everyone needs to be looking out for everyone, whether they’re old, young, sick or healthy. So far, the U.S. is failing this test. CityLab spoke with Louise Aronson, the author of Elderhood: Redefining Aging, Transforming Medicine, Reimagining Life, to learn more about how the American relationship to age and aging is affecting the way we’ve understood the Covid-19 crisis, and how to recalibrate. Aronson is also a geriatrician and professor at the University of California, San Francisco. Our conversation has been edited and condensed for clarity. First, how are you? How is this crisis affecting you and your family? So far so good. It’s just weird, it’s so weird — there’s both no time and more time and then you’re worried, but some things are totally normal. I guess that’s what they mean by unprecedented. Are you going into work at UCSF anymore? Basically they’ve said that everybody that doesn’t need to be in there doing stuff should go home. I am principally an out-patient clinician and I’m also an academic, so I work on a variety of projects. For clinic visits, the good news that came out today was that previously you couldn’t bill for telehealth visits for most patients because Medicare couldn’t cover it, but today they announced they’d cover it. Do you need a physical exam for some things? You do, even in this modern age, so some people may need to be seen, but a decent number of things hopefully we can manage well enough. What you lose sometimes in physical exam you might gain by not having more people not getting sick right now. It’s keeping the most vulnerable patients at home. Public health agencies have recommended extra Covid-19 precautions for “older adults” and people with underlying conditions, who are more susceptible to a serious or fatal case of the virus. But we seem to be seeing a lot of confusion about what that means. Can you help define what people mean when they say “old”? Both now, in the context of dealing with coronavirus, and generally? As I’m sure most people know, this is a hotly debated issue. Among the youngest people, old is anybody over 30, of course, and among the oldest people, old is anyone over 85 or 90. There’s an old joke: “Old age is always 10 years older than I am.” I think a lot of people feel that way throughout the many decades of what I like to call “elderhood.” The way I’ve been thinking about it draws on human biology and changes in our physiology, in our risk factors, in our ability to handle drugs, in our immune systems, as well as by the way societies have legally and socially defined old age. If you go back thousands of years and look at Iran or Egypt or Greece or Rome or China or Japan, “old” always comes in somewhere between the ages of 60 and 70. But if you tell most Americans in their 60s that they’re old, they’re going to say something along the lines of: “I’m still fully functional, etcetera, etcetera.” Being old doesn’t mean you’re not fully functional. It doesn’t say anything about your function! All it speaks to is the number of years you have been alive and your biology. When people who are older — and they are the most likely group to do this, although some younger people do it too — and still functional say, “I’m still functional,” they are inadvertently contributing to the very ageism that leads them to make that denial. What they’re saying is that when they — when we all — become less functional — which happens to anyone who lives into advanced old age, and most of us will — we no longer have value as human beings. We no longer deserve compassion and attention. And I strongly dispute that. I don’t want to make this out like it’s a personal failing of anybody but it’s so universal. It is as universal as ageism itself, which we see in ebbs and flows throughout history and culture. I’m not blaming people, but I do believe we have a moment here. As our population shifts from one with lots of kids, fewer adults and almost no old people to one — barring disaster with this pandemic — that’s fairly equal people in all age groups, we have an opportunity to see old age more realistically. Has that psychological aversion to seeming “old” affected the ways people over 60 have responded to this health crisis? We’re seeing reports of Boomer parents and grandparents refusing to take the social distancing precautions as seriously as some of their kids, for example.  People seem to be doing this for a couple different reasons. Some of them just don’t buy that this is a pandemic. There are certain news outlets and individuals who are perpetuating that myth, or have been. Based on where they get their info, they truly believe this is part of a plot by one party to oust the leader of another. They’re just misinformed — perhaps lethally misinformed, which is tragic. And then there’s the other group, where if you don’t think of yourself as old and the restrictions are for old people, then going out almost proves your point. Although the media is saying it’s “old” people, I know at my medical center it says “anybody age 60 or older.” That’s really based on the data from Wuhan, where we saw as late as January that the rates of death were very, very low in the young but that as your age goes up, so does your chance of dying — dramatically. With case fatalities of .2 to .4% in the young and nearly 15% in over 80-year-olds, the chance of death is around 50 times higher. So the risks are real, and yes if you’re more frail you’re more likely to die. This actually is a teaching moment for geriatrics: In geriatrics we don’t deny that chronological age matters, but we also know that in terms of health risks and health outcomes, that age is one part of a complex formula that also must include your functional abilities, like can you walk a mile, can you go up and down steps, how strong is your grip. We know that these are tremendously strong predictions of health in old people, unlike in adults and kids. A lot of people who think of themselves as healthy have high blood pressure, or have a little bit of heart disease but it doesn’t really influence their everyday life; they’re thinking, well, I’m not like a sick person with heart disease. But if you get the virus, you still have a 68-year-old heart. I think our ageism is such that it’s putting people in a position of feeling the need to prove themselves. It’s almost as if, if they’re not out there doing things, then they’re one of those old people that doesn’t count. We have created that cultural reality, so shame on all of us. On the other side of the spectrum, many younger Americans — at least at the beginning of the crisis — were less cautious. One theory is that they figured they were safe because they had a lower fatality rate. Was our response to this modulated by our perceptions of elderly people? Maybe in some ways. Today I was just tweeting about this headline that said “Not just older people: Younger adults are also getting the coronavirus.” When you say “just” older people, it sounds like, well, it’s just killing old people, they’re all dying anyway. Which isn’t true. These are people working and living lives! We say that the average life expectancy of an American is 79 years — there are huge differences by race and sex, but that’s the average. And if you look at the medians, half of Americans currently live past age 80. Which is a lot. If you’re a pretty healthy 85-year-old woman, chances are you’re going to live another decade. Most people would see an 85-year-old and say, well she’s on her way out anyway. But she had another decade of life. I firmly believe that if we do more planning population-wide — but also are smarter about older people and target them in ways that aren’t just diminishing but are empowering, as we all want to be targeted — maybe we can prevent some of the illness and not get to the point where we have to take these draconian measures. Some of the most shocking reports out of Italy came from hospitals where there weren’t enough ventilators for everyone, so doctors had to start triaging patients — making hard choices about who should get further care and who wouldn’t, based on their condition and often, their age. How do you think U.S. hospitals will approach a situation like this?  We’ve rarely done it, except for in war, and some people would consider it quintessentially un-American. At the same time, we’ve been pretty slow to respond. There were clear messages from the people who can do modeling of epidemics and who understand viruses; the sorts of scientists and experts who have been routinely devalued in recent years. Had we listened to them — and had we still had an office in the federal government that dealt with this, instead of having certain leaders lying about the threat — that action would have made the sort of rationing we consider un-American not necessary. Are there still steps we can take? Yes, and I think a lot of brave leaders are taking steps. We’re all sheltering in place [in San Francisco], and not everybody’s listening to that, but we should all as citizens be doing everything possible. In every family we can probably find people — not just older people — who are at risk. Because once you start devaluing people based on one characteristic, then you have precedent with which to devalue other people. How should we be looking out for our communities right now, regardless of age?  In San Francisco, homelessness is in every single neighborhood now. The income inequality is blatant — and that’s before this. I think there are lots of groups we’re looking at here. There are levels of things you can do: There’s showing support and care, which frankly has been proven to make everybody healthier, strangely. There’s actual practical support, like people in apartment buildings can knock on the door of the older neighbor and say, “Hey can I do anything for you?”  I’m seeing interesting things online about being at stores and finding either poor families or older people who can’t afford their groceries and paying for them — if you can afford to do that, it’s a lovely thing to do. We can keep the social distance and still be helping out. There are coronavirus-care love languages, kind of?  Totally. Think of creative ways to be supportive. There’s pretty good data that people that behave that way are happier than people who are mean. It’s kind of a win-win. Also: If you’re out and about, because you feel that you’re safe to do so, you should be cleaning. Clean door handles! Wash your hands those 20 seconds with hot water and soap! Most of us have someone in our families who is old, and most of us will become old. We are right now creating our futures by our behavior.

The new coronavirus is threatening much tougher greenhouse gas emission targets on the global airline industry, prompting governments and regulators to look at how they can soften the impact. Airlines are concerned because they could be hit with a sharp rise in compliance costs just as they’re trying to exit a period of lost revenue caused by the global pandemic.

Workers around the world are suddenly confined to their homes and apartments to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Some are doing their best to keep things interesting while telecommuting.  Snapchat parent Snap Inc. has seen a 10-fold surge in downloads since the beginning of the month of a tool that makes calls on services like Zoom Video Communications Inc. and Google Hangouts a bit more lighthearted. The feature, called Snap Camera, allows people to overlay their faces with an augmented-reality filter, turning them into a talking toilet-paper roll or slice of pizza, or evening out skin tone for those who would prefer not to apply makeup while working at home.

Delta Air Lines Inc. is suspending its dividend and share repurchase program as U.S. carriers seek a $58 billion government bailout. The airline also entered into a $2.6 billion secured credit facility, enhancing liquidity amid a daily cash burn of $50 million as travel demand collapses because of the coronavirus pandemic. The company is also drawing $3 billion under its existing revolving credit facilities.

The Pentagon’s chief weapons buyer said defense contractors are “expected to maintain their normal work schedules” within recommended guidelines from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention amid the coronavirus outbreak because they’re considered “critical infrastructure.” “If your contract or subcontract supports the development, production, testing or sustainment of our weapons systems/software systems or the infrastructure to support those activities, you are considered Essential Critical Infrastructure,” Pentagon acquisition chief Ellen Lord wrote Friday in a memo to industry.

The car-sharing company Getaround is actively seeking a sale as the coronavirus outbreak has sent demand plunging and left the startup dangerously short on cash, according to people familiar with the matter. The startup, whose backers include SoftBank’s $100 billion Vision Fund, has been one of the two leading companies in the peer-to-peer car-sharing industry, where people can rent out their private vehicles online for hours or days. Investors had valued it at well over $1 billion. Getaround has said it has 5 million users.

U.S. Secretary of State Michael Pompeo warned that Americans abroad should arrange to return home immediately, as the country tightens border restrictions to fight the coronavirus outbreak. “U.S. citizens who reside in the United States should arrange for their immediate return to the United States unless they are prepared to remain abroad for an extended period of time,” Pompeo said at a White House news conference on Friday.

Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon confirmed that she is asking the country’s restaurants, cafes, pubs, gyms and cinemas to close in an effort to halt the spread of the coronavirus as part of a U.K.-wide push. More than 320 people in Scotland have so far tested positive for Covid-19 and the “number of cases is set to rise sharply,” Sturgeon said in a copy of a national address posted on the government’s website. “We must do all we can to slow it down and save lives.”

President Donald Trump promised to keep pushing for more federal spending until the economy recovers from the coronavirus outbreak, and said Americans can expect “much more” than $1,000 checks from the government. He said at a White House news conference on Friday that if “there’s not enough money” in a stimulus bill currently under debate in Congress, “we’ll do something later, I’m sure.”

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Passenger journeys on the London Underground have fallen by around 70% and are “likely to fall further,” as Transport for London advises avoiding public transport for anything other than essential journeys due to the spread of the coronavirus.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Harrow-based hospital Northwick Park has declared a ’critical incident’ after a surge in coronavirus cases, Sky reports, citing the hospital. The hospital’s critical care unit has hit capacity due to the number of coronavirus cases and is asking neighboring facilities for help.

The White House and Congress may be very close to a deal on an aid package that could boost the virus-battered economy by $2 trillion. Cases surged across Europe, including in the U.K. and France, as Italy’s deaths rose again by a record. Germany plans more than $160 billion in debt spending to help stem the economic fallout.

President Donald Trump said Friday he did not think the U.S. would implement a nation-wide shelter-in-place order similar to those imposed in New York and California to fight the spread of the coronavirus. “I don’t think we’ll ever find that necessary,” Trump said at the White House briefing on the response to the virus.

At the Watergate club on the Spree, where the old West and East Berlins meet, artists like the four-person band GHEIST and Claptone, who performs in a gold-plated Black Death mask, played to an empty dance floor on Wednesday. Their performance was instead watched by thousands of would-be clubbers logged on to a newly created streaming service, www.unitedwestream.berlin. On the dancefloor in the ‘Watergate’ club, Berlin. Photographer: Carsten Koall/Getty Images The event was the first attempt by Berlin’s famed nightclubs to keep the show going after the German capital’s coronavirus fight brought the shutters down last week on clubs, bars and pubs across the city. “If you’re at home, under quarantine, you’re going to have a little bit of club culture in your living room,” Lutz Leichsenring, a board member for Berlin Clubcommission, an advocacy group for the city’s nightlife, said in an interview. The shutdown threatens the club tourism sector that annually contributes 1.48 billion euros ($1.58 billion) to Berlin’s economy. It also puts at risk the livelihoods of thousands of club employees and artists. For the weeks ahead, the clubs and the Berlin Clubcommission are teaming up with broadcaster ARTE Concert to open their virtual doors daily, offering several hours of live DJ sets, music and performances. Visitors to the site will be asked for a donation and will get a “Virtual Club Ticket.” “Watching the first broadcast gave me hope for the future in what has felt like a hopeless time,” said Ivy Rossiter, a music producer. Income from the streaming will contribute to a relief fund that supports clubs, event organizers and artists, the organizers said. In the first 24 hours, the platform raised 103,139 euros from over 3,000 donors. The closing of the clubs, bars and pubs has left about 9,000 employees, as well as tens of thousands of artists -- singers, DJs, dancers, stand-up comics -- without work and wages. The clampdown was part of a broader plan to limit gatherings that had accelerated the spread of the virus in Germany, which has recorded about 13,900 confirmed cases and 43 deaths. Some of the city’s clubs were linked to confirmed cases of the pathogen. Last week, Berlin health authorities said 17 people who were at the Trompete club later tested positive for the virus, while another venue, Kater Blau, asked those who were there on the first weekend of March to self-isolate themselves after one of their clients was found to have been infected. On Wednesday, Chancellor Angela Merkel used a rare television address to urge Germans to abide by restrictions bringing social life to a standstill, calling the pandemic the country’s greatest challenge since World War II. “This is serious -- and you need to take it seriously,” she said. “There has been no such challenge to our country since German reunification – no, since World War II.” Despite the streaming service cushioning the blow to the nightclubs’ balance sheets, Leichsenring still expects the temporary shutdown to harm the industry. He called on the state to provide support. “We have to prepare for longer than we expect... We need governmental support, [to avoid] bankruptcy in that time, and to stay liquid,” he said.

Occidental Petroleum Corp. started reaching out to debt and equity investors about how to ease its $39 billion debt load after collasping oil prices cast doubt on plans to raise cash via asset sales. The oil giant hosted calls this week about ways to meet upcoming maturities, with participants that included investors who typically buy lower-rated debt, said people familiar with the matter. The talks, which were held after Occidental’s downgrade to junk this week, also covered plans to cut spending and conserve cash, said the people, who asked not to be named because the talks were private.

Mexico’s foreign minister said the country won’t yet suspend flights from Europe, contradicting U.S. President Donald Trump, but it will restrict land travel across its northern border. Trump said in a news conference earlier Friday that Mexico had taken action to secure the border and suspend air travel from Europe. At his own news conference hours later, Mexican Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard disputed that point.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Olympic teams from various European countries are pushing the International Olympic Committee to make a decision on the fate of the Tokyo games within a matter of weeks.

Subscribe to What Goes Up on Apple PodcastsSubscribe to What Goes Up on Pocket CastsSubscribe to What Goes Up on Spotify  Megaphone.fm: The Sell-Everything Strategy by What ...

Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Uganda sees economic growth slowing to 5.2% to 5.7% in 2019-20 from an earlier forecast of 6% depending on the severity of the impact coronavirus pandemic, the Finance Ministry said.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. London’s pubs, restaurants, leisure centers, and cinemas will be told to close to stop the spread of coronavirus, under plans expected to be agreed to on Friday, an official said.

As if the market crash threating their jobs wasn’t stressful enough, workers in Canada’s oil-sands are bracing for the coronavirus to upend life in the remote camps where they’re lodged. One suspected case among them is already haunting roughnecks who fly in from across Canada and live for weeks on end in barracks-like facilities built in the boreal forests and marshes of northern Alberta, which houses the world’s third-largest crude reserve. Civeo Corp., a Houston-based company that provides lodging for workers in the Fort McMurray area near oil-sands mines, on Friday said one of its guests “has symptoms consistent with COVID-19, has been tested and we are awaiting results.”

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Saudi Arabia said a series of measures it’s taking would enable companies to redirect 120 billion riyals ($32 billion) as they struggle to combat the impact of the coronavirus pandemic.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The double blow of the coronavirus and falling oil prices won’t derail the green economic transformation on which Enel SpA is building its future, according to Chief Executive Officer Francesco Starace.

In a brutal market rout that has spared almost no corner of the financial market, one American brand is showing extraordinary resilience. Shares of United Parcel Service Inc. have held their own in the past month as other transportation companies plunged amid the global coronavirus pandemic that’s brought daily life to a screeching halt. UPS has been bolstered by its deep ties to Amazon.com Inc.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Netflix Inc. has created a $100 million fund to support Hollywood laborers put out of work by the coronavirus, deploying a safety net for thousands of people who work on film and TV productions.

There aren’t many places to buy hand sanitizer on the island of Palm Beach. Maybe that’s why a member of one of the private clubs in town made off with a large bottle that had been placed in the lobby, and refused to bring it back. That was when the clubs were fully open, indulging members in a sort of last hurrah of cocktails by the pool and a member-guest tournament.

Governor Andrew Cuomo promised a 90-day moratorium on mortgage payments for financially strapped New Yorkers, the kind of help that U.S. homeowners didn’t get during the last major economic crisis. But the pledge was a surprise to the banks holding those mortgages, which say they heard about it first on the news. And Cuomo’s own bank regulator characterizes the mortgage relief as mere “guidance.”

Prime Minister Scott Morrison announced a five-month delay in handing down the federal budget as his government grapples to limit the economic impact of the coronavirus. The budget will be moved to Oct. 6 from May 12, Morrison told reporters Friday after meeting with the national Cabinet. He also announced tighter rules around public gatherings, saying people in cafes, restaurants and other indoor venues must be separated by four square meters.

The Trump administration escalated its attacks on China over the coronavirus, as U.S. officials publicly alleged that Beijing concealed and minimized the spread of the disease within its borders until it was too late to stop a global outbreak. President Donald Trump and Secretary of State Michael Pompeo called the disease the “Chinese virus” at a White House news conference on Friday, rejecting criticism from Beijing and within their own country that the term is offensive. Pompeo demanded the Chinese government release more data on the virus’s spread, saying lives could be at risk otherwise.

As Iran marked the beginning of a new calendar year on Friday, the country’s leaders pledged to improve the economy and domestic production in the face of crippling U.S. sanctions and a devastating pandemic. “It was a difficult year,” Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said in a pre-recorded televised speech. “It started with floods and ended with coronavirus, coupled with other adversities, such as earthquake and sanctions during the year.”





We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Norway’s parliament has agreed to give the government emergency powers to fight the coronavirus pandemic, but added restrictions to the administration’s initial proposal, party leaders told reporters in Oslo on Saturday.

We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The Trump administration is urging Americans to go without the coronavirus test if they can, as the U.S. looks to ration scarce medical equipment for treating the rising number of infected people.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Asma Khan spent years working to create a restaurant business staffed by home-taught female chefs that would celebrate the food of her native Kolkata and provide support to immigrant women and their extended families back home. The last thing she expected was for a deadly virus to bring all of her efforts to a shuddering halt.Asma started with dinner parties in 2012, progressed to supperclubs, hosted a residency in a London pub, and finally in 2017 she fulfilled her dream and opened the Darjeeling Express restaurant. She and her staff of 22 (21 of them women) served lunch as usual on Monday before Prime Minister Boris Johnson said people should stay away from public gatherings at places such as bars, cafes and restaurants. (Last night, he ordered a shutdown.) She realized right away that she would not be able to avoid closing the business she loved for an uncertain period. The U.K. is following many other countries by encouraging social distancing to stop the spread of the coronavirus. “I saw the writing on the wall,’’ Asma said. ‘‘People were saying they would come to us out of solidarity, but I couldn’t have them coming out of love and then making them sick. I have to contribute to making the city safe. I couldn't let our restaurant be a source of infection or disease.“I have a big responsibility. Our employees are immigrant women. Each is supporting 15-20 people back home — entire families, half a village: Grandparents, children, in-laws.  The children won’t go to school.’’Asma is certainly not alone with all her worries, and now for the hospitality industry there is no clear end in sight. Some restaurants, including Brat and the Tonkotsu ramen chain, are switching to takeaway of home delivery, which is allowed under relaxed government licensing regulations. JKS group is planning to step up its Motu home-delivery business. Brat chef Tomos Parry will prepare dishes for guests to take home along with wine from his wine list, which will be sold at discounted prices.  The government this week announced a £330 billion ($384 billion) package to help businesses, including tax breaks, loans and grants. But the indefinite nature of the shutdown means many restaurants may be hesitant to take on more debt. Last night, the government said it will pay 80 percent of the wages of furloughed workers, up to £2,500 a month. So what happens next for Asma?  It had been difficult to get a table at Darjeeling Express since it featured in a Chef’s Table documentary on Netflix last year, and each lunchtime, there were 95 guests in the 55-seater restaurant off Carnaby Street. “I closed on March 17, which happened to be the third anniversary of my signing the lease for Darjeeling Express,” Asma says. “That was a landmark day for me. It was enormous. I had never before signed a contract in my life. Even my mobile phone was in my husband’s name.”She’s talking tough and plans to re-emerge even stronger. “It is women who will pay the highest price in hospitality, not the arrogant chef,” she says. “I am looking at my options but we will definitely come back. I cried but now I feel like when you reboot your computer. I hope we come back to hospitality kinder. And chefs less arrogant, less angry and less toxic. I hope it will make us all very humble.” Richard Vines is chief food critic at Bloomberg. Follow him on Twitter @richardvines and Instagram @richard.vines.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Iceland is introducing emergency measures worth 8% of gross domestic product to counter the impact of the coronavirus.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Nigeria reported two cases of chloroquine poisoning after U.S. President Donald Trump praised the anti-malaria drug as a treatment for the novel coronavirus.

Passengers on Holland America Line Inc.’s Maasdam cruise have not been allowed to disembark at Honolulu, exception for six Hawaii residents and two other U.S. citizens for medical reasons, the company said in a Twitter post. The Maasdam’s new departure time and a point for disembarkation is still being finalized.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Best Buy withdrew all fiscal 2021 guidance, citing the global pandemic, and said it had suspended all share buybacks.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. A senior member of Burkina Faso’s government tested positive for the coronavirus, just days after another lawmaker became the West African country’s first casualty of the pandemic.

Thessaloniki, Greece (AP) -- Almost 600 migrants arrested while crossing to three Greek islands from the Turkish coast opposite have arrived at a facility in northern Greece where they are required to remain pending deportation, authorities say. The 598 migrants were sent by boat to the northern port of Kavala and by bus to the facility, northeast of the city of Thessaloniki and near the border with Bulgaria. The migrants will stay in tents and will not be able to leave the camp.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Ethiopian Airlines Group has lost over $190 million as the impact of the coronavirus on global travel hurts Africa’s only consistently profitable airline.

In normal times, jails and prisons are uniquely well-suited for spreading communicable diseases. Since the start of the coronavirus pandemic, dozens of cities and counties have worked to reduce the number of inmates cycling in and out. Many plan to release inmates and suspend prosecution for mostly nonviolent crimes. And yet, in places including New Orleans, one of the most heavily incarcerated cities in the world, local prosecutors have refused calls to take the steps that could avert a catastrophe outbreak. The New Orleans district attorney, backed by the city’s mayor and police superintendent, is opposing any blanket policy that would release inmates — even if it would mean mitigating a coronavirus outbreak — arguing in court filings that such a measure could spread the disease to the general public. That view is not shared across many other major cities. In Baltimore, State’s Attorney Marilyn Mosby has halted prosecutions for all drug, prostitution, and even public urination offenses. “Now is not the time for a piecemeal approach where we go into court and argue one by one for the release of at-risk individuals,” wrote Mosby to her staff, The Baltimore Sun reported. Mosby also joined 30 other state’s attorneys, district attorneys, and attorneys general from jurisdictions across every U.S. region, including Hawaii, in calling for prosecutors to cease indictments and release inmates deemed nonthreatening to society. These include people charged with low-level crimes such as drug offenses, shoplifting, and driving without a license; and many who haven’t yet been convicted of anything. The law enforcement officials signed on to a joint statement laying out rights and responsibilities for people who are in custody. The statement asks that jails stop admitting and detaining people, including immigrants and those who are undocumented, if they don’t pose a “serious risk to the physical safety” of communities. They also are asking that each inmate has access to quality health care and free phone calls to family and counsel, especially for sick and solitary confined.    This is an agenda that most prosecutors can’t adopt on their own. “Every jurisdiction is different in terms of what the prosecutor controls or what the sheriffs or judges control,” said Miriam Krinsky, executive director of the organization Fair and Just Prosecution, which organized the statement. But, Krinsky says, “they are all working with their police chiefs, other criminal justice and public health leaders to navigate through the various categories of crimes and penalties to implement the recommendations that the joint statement raised.” The coalition warns that the chronic overcrowding that regularly takes place in jails, state prisons, and ICE detention centers could lead to a coronavirus outbreak that “would potentially be catastrophic,” given many of these custodial facilities have already failed to contain the spread of less fatal disease outbreaks. If these facilities become breeding grounds for the coronavirus, it will not only impact those incarcerated, but our entire community. Jails and prisons cycle large numbers of people in and out of close, unsanitary quarters on a daily basis. ... People leave immigration detention and return to communities in the US or to vulnerable refugee shelters and encampments along the border. All of these facilities rely on services and support from vendors and medical professionals, employ staff who come and go, and appropriately provide access for legal counsel and family members to visit.   Medical experts have been raising flags about the potential for a prison-based coronavirus catastrophe since the outbreak started. “The way jails and prisons are designed and administered promotes the spread of communicable disease,” former NYC Correctional Health Services chief medical officer Dr. Homer Venters told the Brennan Center for Justice. “Generally speaking, these are unsanitary settings, and there is not ample access to handwashing. Most of the terms that we have learned in the last few days, like social distancing and self-quarantine, are completely not applicable in these settings.” Among the signers of the letter are San Francisco District Attorney Chesa Boudin, Dallas County District Attorney John Creuzot, Durham County (North Carolina) District Attorney Satana Deberry, St. Louis Circuit Attorney Kim Gardner, and Philadelphia District Attorney Larry Krasner. These are mostly prosecutors who’ve made names for themselves by pushing for policies that would reduce arrests and incarceration. However, they don’t represent the only cities adopting decarceration and prosecution-suspending practices. In Brooklyn, District Attorney Eric Gonzalez announced that his office will stop prosecuting low-level offenses. Seattle District Attorney Dan Satterberg said on Twitter that he’ll file “only priority in-custody violent crimes” for the next two weeks, after which he would file motions to continue arraignment for other felonies for 30 days.  @emilybazelon For the next two weeks we will file only priority in-custody violent crimes. After that we will file felonies with a motion to continue arraignment for 30 days. This is six weeks of reduced mandatory activity in court.  Then we assess... Miami-Dade State Attorney Katherine Fernandez Rundle announced this week that she would begin “to develop a process to release misdemeanor & nonviolent felons,” but only after her primary rival and a slew of criminal justice reform activists pushed her to do so. In Pittsburgh, District Attorney Stephen A. Zappala Jr. is acquiescing to demands from the Coalition to Abolish Death By Incarceration and the Abolition Law Center to release certain inmates from the county jail. Meanwhile, local jails in Chicago, Louisville, Austin, Virginia Beach, and Omaha have all begun releasing nonviolent offenders and pre-trial detainees. An even longer list of local and federal court systems have postponed pending trials until further notice. One place that’s not seeing a ton of action is in Mississippi, the site of several uprisings and deaths in recent months for reasons associated with the deplorable conditions of the state’s prison. On March 16, advocates from the Mississippi Prison Reform Coalition, the ACLU of Mississippi, and the Mississippi Center for Justice sent a letter to Governor Reeves imploring him to scale back incarceration and detention activities. “If you have not already, we ask that you immediately reach out to the Mississippi State Department of Health (“MSDH”) to develop plans to address the virus in all Mississippi facilities that house prisoners or detainees, including Mississippi Department of Corrections facilities, county jails, and juvenile detention centers,” reads the letter. “This is an urgent matter. Having an appropriate, evidence-based plan in place can help prevent an outbreak and minimize its impact if one does occur. Not having one may cost lives.” In New Orleans, some inmates have been released on a piecemeal basis, thanks to a campaign led in part by New Orleans’ public defenders. They have been raising money to bail out as many people as possible from jail, which is as much about reducing risks of spreading coronavirus as it is about implementing reforms that they have been working towards for years. They have also been arguing on a case-by-case basis in court that particular defendants should be released due to the coronavirus. But none of these efforts have been sufficient to release as many people as could be released by adopting policy changes like the ones called for in the joint statement — a step Orleans Parish District Attorney Leon Cannizaro has been unwilling to take. "It is disheartening that the Orleans Public Defenders would seek to exploit this public health emergency by asking our police and courts to turn a blind eye toward criminal conduct,” New Orleans district attorney spokesman Ken Daley told Nola.com. “We review bond-reduction motions on a case-by-case basis, and oppose them when appropriate in the interest of public safety. This is hardly a time to encourage lawlessness.” Cannizaro’s office has argued in court filings that coronavirus is a reason not to release inmates, because it could perpetuate the disease’s spread to the general public, according to The Lens NOLA. As is the case with all local jails, many of the people sitting in the Orleans Parish Prison haven’t been convicted for any crimes; they are only awaiting a hearing or arraignment. During Hurricane Katrina, inmates were also held in the jail too long, as the disaster worsened, which led to preventable deaths — or rather, mysteriously disappeared prisoners. Speaking with inmates who were trapped there during the floods, the ACLU wrote in a report on the aftermath: “The picture that emerged from all of these accounts was one of widespread chaos, caused in large part by inadequate emergency planning and training by local officials, and of racially motivated hostility on the part of prison officials and blatant disregard for the individuals trapped in the jail.”   The criminal justice systems in New Orleans and Mississippi now have an opportunity to not repeat the mistakes made during Hurricane Katrina. And, they now have political cover from a wider prosecutor community to change their jailing policies.

We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Washington (AP) -- An inmate at a federal jail in New York City has tested positive for coronavirus, marking the first confirmed case in the federal prison system.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Simon Wolfson, chief executive officer of clothing chain Next Plc, said this week that the coronavirus pandemic presents the global retail industry with its biggest threat in nearly half a century.

Mexico’s central bank is prepared to act outside of its normal decision calendar again if needed, Governor Alejandro Diaz de Leon said after the institution announced its first unscheduled interest rate decision in four years amid plunging economic forecasts. The calendar of set meetings was designed with a calmer time in mind, and extraordinary rate decisions by the Federal Reserve made it necessary for the Mexican central bank -- better known as Banxico -- to act ahead of its schedule, the governor said in an interview.

Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government is putting together a package of measures ahead of a cabinet meeting Monday as it readies more than 150 billion euros ($160 billion) in new debt financing to help stem the economic fallout of the coronavirus pandemic. Measures being considered include direct assistance to companies and low-income earners, according to a person familiar with the status of the talks as of late Friday. The discussions are ongoing and the final proposal could still change. Finance Minister Olaf Scholz told Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung the measures will increase the 2020 budget by about 40% and will primarily be used to grant credit to companies and finance shorter work weeks.

Gaza City, Gaza Strip (AP) -- The Palestinian Health Ministry announced early Sunday that two residents who returned recently from Pakistan to the Gaza Strip tested positive for the coronavirus, the first cases to be diagnosed in the Palestinian enclave. The development added to fears of a potential outbreak in crowded Gaza, which has an overstretched health care system after years of an Israeli-Egyptian blockade, cross-border conflicts with Israel and Palestinian political division.

We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Boris Johnson urged 1.5 million people with underlying health issues to self-isolate for at least three months and said Britain’s medical system is only two or three weeks away from being swamped, as has happened to the Italian health service.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. About a week into the month-long lockdown of the Philippines’ main island of Luzon, businessmen are calling for a 281 billion peso ($5.52 billion) fiscal stimulus to soften the economic blow of the spreading coronavirus outbreak that has displaced millions of workers.

President Donald Trump declared that a major disaster exists in the State of New York and ordered federal assistance to be given to the state to aid local recovery efforts in areas impacted by the coronavirus outbreak. The move will unlock federal funding for New York state, the White House office of the press secretary said in a statement.

Israel’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said his party has reached agreement with Benny Gantz’s party on an emergency unity government, Haaretz reported. Under the agreement, Gantz would replace Netanyahu after a year and a half, the report said.

Malaysian opposition leader Anwar Ibrahim said he no longer believes former Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad following a series of broken promises between the two political stalwarts. Anwar, in an interview with CNBC on Friday, said “not now” when asked if he still trusted in the former prime minister.

Government watchdog groups have called for investigations by ethics officials, prosecutors and regulators of sales of stock by senators briefed in January on the coronavirus threat. Still, enforcement experts say that the trades are unlikely to lead to direct regulatory or legal sanctions, leaving it to ethics officials and voters to decide whether the senators crossed the line.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Sydney (AP) -- Legendary Australia leg-spinner Shane Warne has turned his hand from making gin to making hand-sanitizer as shortages frustrate attempts to control the coronavirus outbreak.

Nashville, Tenn. (AP) -- Kenny Rogers, the smooth, Grammy-winning balladeer who spanned jazz, folk, country and pop with such hits as “Lucille,” “Lady” and “Islands in the Stream” and embraced his persona as “The Gambler” on records and on TV, died Friday night. He was 81. He died at home in Sandy Springs, Georgia, representative Keith Hagan told The Associated Press. He was under hospice care and died of natural causes, Hagan said.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Dubai’s ruler Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum asked local banks to offer companies relief, including refinancing and repayment deferrals, as part of measures aimed to limit the impact of the coronavirus on the economy.

We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. A ventilator manufacturing giant may be getting the help of an unexpected innovator: Elon Musk.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The coronavirus pandemic threatens to complicate matters for several of the world’s most indebted nations, potentially disrupting the restructuring of some $160 billion in international bonds.

We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. A Covid-19 test can deliver results in less than an hour has been approved under an FDA emergency authorization, marking the first test that clinicians can use at the bedside.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. India’s move to lockdown much of the world’s second-most populous country may not be enough to soften the impact of the coronavirus outbreak as thousands thronged key train stations before services closed to head to their villages, risking carrying the infection to the nation’s vast hinterland.

The nation’s hospitals are urging Congress to quickly provide $100 billion in emergency funding through the phase 3 stimulus bill or risk the closure of cash-strapped facilities nationwide just as the Covid-19 outbreak reaches the critical stage. “Now, I know that’s going to sound like a lot of money, but it’s what’s needed to adequately respond to this once-in-a-century event,” said Rick Pollack, president and chief executive officer of the American Hospital Association in a press conference Saturday. “The reality is that we are in a war in which hospitals and health systems are on the front lines and our health care workers are putting their lives on the line to fight this battle.”

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Brazilian companies are feeling the impact of the coronavirus pandemic in Latin America’s largest nation, which has a precarious health system to deal with the infection.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Google launched a website dedicated to information about Covid-19 a week after U.S. President Donald Trump touted the company’s help in the fight against the pandemic.

Scooter-sharing service Lime is considering further cuts to its workforce in the U.S. as sales and scooter trips plummeted with the coronavirus pandemic. The management is considering cutting between 50 to 70 people, primarily at its San Francisco headquarters, according to a person with direct knowledge of the situation who didn’t want to be named discussing sensitive information. No decision has yet been made and discussions are still ongoing, the person said.

U.S Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin is seeking to tap executives from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and other Wall Street firms to help oversee more than $200 billion in bailout packages that the Trump administration is proposing to ease the economic damage of the coronavirus outbreak, people familiar with the matter said. Mnuchin’s team is considering executives with broad experience to help administer loans to airlines, hotels and other industries suffering as the virus shuts down parts of the economy, the people said. The government is also considering taking equity stakes in some companies in exchange for aid, a program that financiers and bankers could administer.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. At some Spanish hospitals, doctors and nurses resort to taping garbage sacks to their arms to shield themselves while they work to save an avalanche of patients fighting for breath. They’ve run out of disposable coats.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. As government officials have  closed bars and restaurants over the past week in an effort to reduce population density in public spaces and help stem the spread of the Covid-19 coronavirus, sales at liquor stores and home delivery of booze has ramped up sharply.

Australia’s parliament rushed through more than A$80 billion ($46.3 billion) in fiscal stimulus for the coronavirus-stricken economy at a special sitting in Canberra on Monday. Lawmakers passed the Coronavirus Economic Response Package Omnibus Bill 2020, legislation aimed at saving businesses and jobs as the nation lurches toward its first recession since 1991. As the crisis continues, another injection is likely from the government.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. After a week of market havoc and an international response from central banks, investors are looking ahead to a busy run of economic data for insight into the damage wrought by the coronavirus.

British regulators asked publicly traded companies to delay reporting their results for at least two weeks as the coronavirus pandemic freezes business activity and causes chaos for those attempting to prepare financial statements. The Financial Conduct Authority said Saturday that it would “strongly request” that companies postpone publishing if they planned to report earnings imminently. More than 50 firms were scheduled to publish half- and full-year figures over the next two weeks, including housebuilder Bellway Plc and medical equipment maker Smiths Group Plc.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Italy coronavirus deaths rose by a record 793 on Saturday, bringing the total to 4,825.

New Zealand Finance Minister Grant Robertson said he will announce further government measures to combat the economic impact of the coronavirus in coming days. Robertson said that when he unveiled a NZ$12.1 billion ($6.9 billion) stimulus package last week, he reserved the right to move again before the budget in May. “Clearly things are moving very fast,” Robertson said on TVNZ’s Q+A program on Sunday. “I think you can expect more announcements from us around economic responses in the coming days.”

Elizabeth Holmes and  Sunny Balwani ran Theranos Inc. together as chief executive officer and president, and for a time, as girlfriend and boyfriend.But when they go on trial over criminal charges that the once-promising blood testing startup was a fraud, they will face separate juries.A judge didn’t explain why he severed their trials in a brief order issued late Friday, saying only that he found “good cause” to do so, and that Holmes’ trial will start Aug. 4 as scheduled, while Balwani’s will begin after hers is finished. Since the two former executives were charged in 2018, they have maintained a unified, if sometimes strained, front. Legal experts have said their past romance is probably a  “complicating factor” as they try to avoid being convicted and sent to prison. One possibility for the split is that one defendant is turning on the other, considering testifying against his or her former lover or even cooperating with the prosecution.Barbara McQuade, a former federal prosecutor and professor at the University of Michigan Law School, said the answer may lie in the dozens of court filings being kept from public view.“The fact that there have been sealed filings and the judge does not specify the basis suggests that there may be sensitive information at issue,” McQuade said. The shielded documents may reveal trade secrets or sensitive information about the defendants such as health or medical issues, she said.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Europe’s stocks have suffered devastating declines in recent weeks as the spread of the coronavirus has seen everyday life in the region come to a near halt.

Want to receive this post in your inbox every day? Sign up for the Balance of Power newsletter, and follow Bloomberg Politics on Twitter and Facebook for more. This was the week that ripped the fabric of modern life 70 years in the making. As the Covid-19 death toll topped 10,000 globally, governments locked down schools, businesses, social venues and most other every-day aspects of society. Policy makers responded with promises to rescue economies hurtling toward disaster, while the private sector also vowed to pitch in.

The Trump administration doesn’t plan to challenge a federal court ruling that dramatically curbs its ability to exempt oil refineries from biofuel-blending requirements, according to three people familiar with the matter. Under a decision reached late this week by top administration officials, the Environmental Protection Agency will now apply that 10th Circuit Court of Appeals ruling nationwide, so that just a handful of U.S. refineries remain eligible for the valuable exemptions. The decision, which follows weeks of deliberations, was described by the people, who asked not to be named before a formal announcement.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Igor Matovic, whose party won Slovakia’s general elections last month on a pledge to uproot corruption, was appointed prime minister just as the euro-area economy braces for the impact of the coronavirus.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Democrats on the House Oversight Committee want the Trump administration to brief the panel on plans to meet shortages of personal protective equipment for health-care workers as well as ventilators and hospital bed capacity.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The coronavirus outbreak continues to accelerate in Spain despite a weeklong national lockdown, with deaths jumping more than 30% for a second day.

With nervous shoppers hoarding everything from toilet paper to tequila, retailers are coping by playing a game -- a game about beer. Jay Forrester, a professor at MIT, invented the “beer game” in the late 1950s to illustrate system dynamics, a method of analyzing and managing complex organizations. The activity simulates supply-chain volatility, helping players navigate boom-or-bust conditions for products spanning diapers to refrigerators.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Amman, Jordan (AP) -- Air raid sirens echoed across Jordan's capital Saturday to mark the start of a three-day curfew, the latest mass lockdown in the Middle East aimed at containing the coronavirus, which has claimed another 123 lives in Iran, home to the region's worst outbreak.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. UBS Group AG is making “several billion” Swiss francs available to small and mid-sized companies as it backs Switzerland’s measures to help businesses hit by the coronavirus pandemic.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Canada has an agreement in place with airlines to bring stranded residents home, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said.

New York City is closing all non-essential businesses from Sunday to curb the spread of the coronavirus outbreak, Mayor Bill de Blasio said. Businesses such as grocery stores, pharmacies, Internet providers, mass transit, banks and other financial institutions will still be permitted to operate, the mayor said in a statement. The new restrictions will take effect Sunday 8 p.m. local time.

India’s Uttar Pradesh state will pay workers to help them meet daily needs as the country tries to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said. Bordering the national capital of New Delhi, Uttar Pradesh is India’s most populous state with around 200 million inhabitants. It will distribute 1,000 rupees per month to over 3.5 million day laborers and constructions workers, Adityanath said in a broadcast posted to his Twitter account.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Hungary’s government asked lawmakers to extend a state of emergency indefinitely amid the coronavirus crisis and introduce prison sentences for those deemed to be spreading false information.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Bank of Ghana has told the country’s lenders that they must seek approval before declaring and paying dividends on 2019 earnings as the regulator moves to guard against banks taking advantage of eased reserve rules due to the coronavirus to boost payouts to investors.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. It began with 75 basis points from the Reserve Bank of New Zealand ended with 50 from the central bank of Mexico.

Kenny Rogers, the white-haired country singer whose hits included “The Gambler” and “Islands in the Stream,” has died. He was 81. “Rogers passed away peacefully at home from natural causes under the care of hospice and surrounded by his family,” the Rogers family said on Twitter.

U.S. airlines are strenuously pushing the Trump administration and Congress for cash grants, arguing behind the scenes that a Senate proposal to hand them billions of dollars in taxpayer-backed loans isn’t sufficient to guarantee their long-term health, two people familiar with the matter said. Over the past week, industry lobby group Airlines for America had been urging the White House to agree to its request for $58 billion. Now, the airlines and administration officials are pressing Congress for quick action on the industry bailout, aimed to blunt the fallout from the Covid-19 pandemic.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Hong Kong will extend Covid-19 testing to asymptomatic arrivals after a sharp rise in infections driven mainly by imported cases, Chief Executive Carrie Lam said.

A French scholar and an Iranian engineer have been released in a prisoner exchange between France and the Islamic Republic. Roland Marchal is on his way home, the office of President Emmanuel Macron said in a statement on Saturday. A colleague of the academic told France Info radio he had been exposed to the coronavirus.

We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. President Donald Trump didn’t make a direct commitment to forgo taxpayer stimulus funds for his network of hotels and golf courses as the coronavirus pandemic ravages the travel industry.

We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Puerto Rico’s debt restructuring faces a potential delay as the island’s oversight board plans to ask the court shepherding the commonwealth’s record bankruptcy to postpone hearings while the government works to address the coronavirus.

Hong Kong sent two travelers infected with the novel coronavirus to their homes, instead of transferring them to a hospital for isolation and treatment, after their samples were probably mixed up during testing. The mistake was discovered in repeat testing early Saturday and the two people were then moved to a hospital, where they are in stable condition, according to a press release published on the government website on Saturday.

Airbnb Inc.’s board met this week to consider a wide range of options in response to the current economic crisis, which is weighing heavily on the business. The potential moves include acquiring distressed assets, raising more funding from private investors and revising plans for a stock market debut scheduled for this year, people familiar with the deliberations said. The home-rental startup has been approached by a dozen potential investors, according to the people, all of whom asked not to be identified discussing private information. The investors include venture capitalists, private equity firms and sovereign wealth funds, with potential deals ranging in size from $100 million to $1 billion, the people said. None of them has set a price tag for the company, but Airbnb is unlikely to maintain the $31 billion valuation it enjoyed during the bull market.

We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Turkey’s coronavirus deaths rose to 21 on Saturday as expanded testing, including kits from China, accelerated the infection count.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Social distancing is adding a new layer of complexity to the mechanics of deal signing.

Australia is edging toward lockdown with authorities preparing to shutter non-essential services and close state borders after the number of coronavirus cases in the nation surged past 1,000. New South Wales and Victoria, the two most-populous states, said that while supermarkets, petrol stations, pharmacies and freight and logistics will remain open, non-essential activity will be stopped over the coming 48 hours. Victorian schools will close from Tuesday.

Thailand’s capital imposed a partial shutdown from Sunday after novel coronavirus cases surged past 400 with a rising number of people in critical condition. Malls in Bangkok will be closed, and shops offering food and essential services will be among the few that can remain open, Bangkok Governor Aswin Kwanmuang said in a briefing Saturday. The restrictions will last from March 22 to April 12, he said.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The Trump administration signaled a willingness to remove tariffs on medical supplies from China as health authorities backed by U.S. businesses express an urgent need for more masks, ventilators and other equipment to suppress the coronavirus pandemic.

A recession in Germany “is now inevitable” as the coronavirus pandemic spreads, European Central Bank Governing Council member Jens Weidmann said in an interview with Die Welt newspaper. Weidmann, who heads Germany’s Bundesbank, also said the emergency 750 billion-euro ($800 billion) bond-buying program agreed by the ECB this week to calm stress in financial markets doesn’t mean the central bank’s coffers are now empty.

It wasn’t until Wednesday, five days after President Donald Trump declared a national emergency, that the Federal Emergency Management Agency announced it was “leading the federal coordination” to the Covid-19 pandemic in the U.S.While the disaster-response agency is better known for its work in the aftermath of storms than disease outbreaks, it is the part of the federal government often charged with procuring supplies quickly. The decision to activate FEMA to its highest state, Level 1, didn’t surprise James Kendra, who directs the Disaster Research Center at the University of Delaware. But Kendra did wonder if FEMA could possibly handle both a once-in-a-lifetime public health crisis and the upcoming spring flood season. The National Weather Service warned this week that flooding could affect 128 million Americans this year.  “FEMA is stretched,” he said. “All the other hazards we have in the U.S. will not go away and will only complicate the task of responding to the coronavirus.”

We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. An air-traffic facility that oversees space around New York City is being cleansed after a trainee tested positive for Covid-19, leading to some delays and briefly halting flights to JFK airport.

Goldman Sachs Group Inc. pumped more than $1 billion into two of its prime money-market portfolios as investors pulled funds during one of Wall Street’s most volatile weeks. The bank bought $722.4 million in assets from its Goldman Sachs Financial Square Money Market Fund last week and another $301.2 million from its Goldman Sachs Financial Square Prime Obligations Fund, according to two filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission late Friday. Combined net withdrawals exceeded $8 billion.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. President Donald Trump and congressional leaders said negotiators were closing in on an agreement for a coronavirus economic-relief plan that the top White House economic adviser said would provide a $2 trillion boost to the U.S. economy.

The historic response to Canada’s economic crisis by Justin Trudeau’s government is only just beginning. A half-million jobless claims filed last week, representing 2.5% of the labor force, is a shocking signal of how deep a rut Canada’s economy is in as entire industries shut down in response to the coronavirus pandemic. The new worry is Covid-19 could spread through remote barracks-like camps that house oil workers, adding another blow to a key sector.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Italy’s transport minister asked the nation’s European Union partners to ensure unrestricted passage for truck drivers as the continent’s worst coronavirus outbreak leads to scrutiny and delays on the northern border.

The Tokyo 2020 organizing committee isn’t yet at the stage where it can make a decision on whether or not to cancel or postpone the Olympics, Kyodo News reported Saturday, citing an interview with Executive Board Vice President Toshiaki Endo. Endo made the remarks in response to the Norwegian Olympic Committee’s release of a letter urging the International Olympic Committee not to hold the games in Tokyo until the coronavirus outbreak is “under firm control on a global scale,” according to Kyodo.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Italy’s escalating coronavirus battle helped mark the onset of a global stock market collapse that erased $20 trillion in four weeks. Now, its campaign against the pandemic is being scrutinized for clues on how much further this once-in-a-generation crash will go.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. New York is racing to add tens of thousands of hospital beds, buy thousands of ventilators and distribute millions of masks to medical workers as coronavirus infections in the state rose above 10,000, Governor Andrew Cuomo said.

New Zealand central bank Governor Adrian Orr said the bank has additional firepower at its disposal to keep the financial system functioning and noted its ability to make large purchases of government bonds. “We are ready to act further, with more firepower in reserve to keep the financial taps turned on,” Orr wrote in an opinion article in the Sunday Star Times newspaper. “Our Monetary Policy Committee signaled that large-scale asset purchases of New Zealand government bonds can be used when further stimulus is required.”

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. John Lewis Partnership said it will shutter its stores for the first time in the British retailer’s 155-year history amid the coronavirus pandemic.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The U.S. track and field team, one of the most prominent individual sports federations in the Olympic movement, added to the clamor urging that the 2020 Tokyo Games be postponed, and the IOC again ignored the noise.

Boeing Co. is edging closer to winning a government bailout as the once-mighty company races to secure a lifeline amid the aviation industry’s worst crisis in decades. Backstop financing would start to slide into place next week if the U.S. Congress approves a Senate Republican proposal to provide as much as $208 billion in collateralized loans and loan guarantees for companies and industries jeopardized by the coronavirus pandemic. Boeing called this week for $60 billion in aerospace aid, mostly for itself.

Where Europe leads, others follow -- at least when it comes to the rules of commerce. Why? Because the alternative could be too costly. Companies selling into multiple markets want a one-size-fits-all approach to regulation and products, perhaps even more so in a world grappling with the Coronavirus, and that is effectively giving the European Union an edge in setting standards far beyond its borders. Even Brexit-bound Britain and trailblazing California are feeling the Brussels Effect. It’s a term for the influence the EU exerts by shaping rules and technical standards adopted by companies and countries around the world. When YouTube pulls a video rant off its website, it’s using the EU’s definition of hate speech. Timber chopped down in Indonesia, honey harvested in Brazil and the amount of chemicals in Japanese toys all abide by rules set by Brussels. EU antitrust probes into Google’s business are mimicked by India, South Korea and even the U.S. The list goes on. Global companies can’t afford to ignore the terms set by one of their most important markets, says Columbia Law School Professor Anu Bradford who coined the term “Brussels Effect” in an article and a book. If businesses want to avoid producing different versions of the same product for different markets, many will take the EU line for a number of reasons. Legislation from the bloc of 27 nations can prove more flexible than that from other regions as the EU picks up what’s been trialed in its member states, such as privacy tested out in Germany or emissions trading programs in the U.K. European rules also need to be agreed by consensus, allowing a say for companies and consumer or environmental activists. What comes out sets a high standard that firms with global supply chains tend to accept. Pretty much everything. Companies wanting to prove their products use safe chemicals will follow the EU’s REACH rules. African farmers growing food that might be sold to Europe will shun genetically modified crops to comply with EU standards. Trees felled illegally can’t be made into products destined for Europe. Any business that collects and uses data (that’s most of them) knows of the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, rules that limit what personal information can be gathered and stored. Looking ahead, energy efficiency and environmental rules to meet EU climate goals may also be adopted by companies and copied by countries across the globe. That’s another matter. Its support of human rights is often ignored and few countries seek to emulate its expensive and generous social security and health systems or high-wage labor market. The euro, overseen by the European Central Bank in Frankfurt, has never seriously challenged the dollar as the world’s benchmark currency and the EU’s struggle to contain its own financial and debt crises have eroded its role as a global economic power. Former Bank of England Governor Mervyn King argued in a Bloomberg Opinion column that for U.K. banks the partnership with the U.S. may offer a better hope for regulation than tying London to an EU model. The Brussels Effect, a variation of the ‘California Effect’ phenomenon also described in academic research, didn’t come about by design but the EU’s executive, the European Commission, is happy to show it off. It invites overseas officials to see how it works and explain its policies, for example telling China how Europe tries to keep state subsidies in check. Lobbyists from companies and governments around the world maintain offices in the Belgian capital. The U.K.’s move to quit the EU was partly predicated on the desire to make its own rules. Yet, according to Bradford, the country is likely to remain hooked into EU regulations as its businesses push for alignment to allow them to sell into the European market of 450 million people. When it comes to internal EU debate, Britain’s disappearance will eliminate a pro-market voice that often countered French and German pushes for greater regulation and intervention. The EU isn’t leading the rule-making in every area, particularly emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence that are dominated by Chinese and American companies. Weary about the excesses such industries may bring, EU tech czar Margrethe Vestager aims to ensure technology deployed in Europe is transparent and has human oversight, likely meaning more stringent guidelines than in many other regions. — With assistance by Jonathan Stearns, and Nikos Chrysoloras

A tiny trial of a malaria drug may or may not have helped several patients in France fight off their coronavirus infections. The FDA has said it needs more study. Some expert doctors are skeptical. President Donald Trump is all for it. On Saturday, Trump again promoted the drug at a White House briefing, and retweeted a post about a small scientific study that has been making the rounds for several days. It followed Trump’s comments Friday that the drug, hydroxychloroquine, was a “game changer,” that “we’re going to be able to make that drug available almost immediately,” and noting that patients could get it from their doctor.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Volkswagen AG said a two- to three-week factory closure put in place this week may not be sufficient, and told workers that drastic steps will be needed to protect liquidity as government lockdowns to fight the coronavirus make it impossible to do business as normal.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. With five months left on his contract, 27-year-old Frenchman Olivier wanted to stay in South Africa. But when he realized Air France was about to halt flights to and from the country, he handed his keys to his landlord and rushed to the airport to buy a ticket.

We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The novel coronavirus outbreak in Spain, already among the harshest in the world, will continue to expand, with more cases and deaths over the next few days, Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Smiths Group Plc, the British maker of medical devices, said it’s “significantly ramping up” production of ventilators as demand soars in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.

New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern announced a coronavirus alert system with escalating restrictions on human contact, travel and business operations as the risk of community transmission grows. In a televised address to the nation Saturday, Ardern said New Zealand had moved to level two on the four-tier system, signaling the virus is contained but domestic transmission risks are increasing. The country now has 52 confirmed cases of Covid-19, up from five two weeks ago. Most of them are travel-related but there are at least two instances where no link to overseas travel has yet been ascertained, the Ministry of Health said.

Bankers are having to tell America’s biggest, most credit-worthy companies that they’ll need to wait, pay more, or in extreme cases look elsewhere for new loans to bolster their cash buffers. For many on Wall Street, such a situation would’ve seemed almost unimaginable just a few weeks ago. But with blue-chip corporations tapping existing revolvers at a dizzying clip, alternative funding sources freezing up and capital-markets desks stretched to the limit operationally, banks are suddenly being forced to have some tough conversations.

South Korea asked its people to refrain from joining any group activities related to religion, sports and entertainment for next two weeks as health officials warned of a rising fatality rate from the coronavirus after a lull in new cases. Prime Minister Chung Sye-kyun said public behavior in the next 15 days will determine whether South Korea will win its fight against COVID-19. Failure to obey restrictions could lead to a ban in gatherings or legal action, he said in a national address on Saturday.











Zagreb, Croatia (AP) -- A strong earthquake in Croatia on Sunday caused panic, the evacuation of hospitals and widespread damage including to the capital's iconic cathedral — all amid a partial coronavirus lockdown. A 15-year-old was reported to be in critical condition and 16 other people were injured, authorities said.

Vietnam said it will temporarily suspend entry to all foreigners who already have travel visas to the country, except for those visiting the country for diplomat or official purposes, amid the novel coronavirus outbreak. Foreigners who are deemed experts, business managers or highly skilled workers will still be allowed to enter the country but must have certificates indicating they have tested negative for the virus, must fill out health declarations and will be ordered into quarantine upon arrival, the government said in a statement on Sunday.

A contested Jerusalem shrine has been closed due to the coronavirus, according to the Islamic trust that administers the site. The Waqf Council decided to suspend prayer in the Al-Aqsa Compound, revered by Muslims as the place where the Prophet Muhammad ascended to heaven and by Jews as the Temple Mount, the site of their biblical temple.

Harvey Weinstein has tested positive for the novel coronavirus in prison, Deadline reported, citing an Empire State law enforcement official it didn’t identify. The movie producer is now in medical isolation, according to the report.

We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. It will likely take months for Canada to get through the coronavirus crisis and deal with the “economic stoppage” the country is facing, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said.

We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Vice President Mike Pence said the backlog in coronavirus testing in the U.S. should be resolved by midweek.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Indonesian police have called on the public to avoid public gatherings, including religious activities, as the government tries to control the spread of coronavirus.

New Zealand’s central bank has taken the historic leap to quantitative easing to try to limit a looming recession as the negative economic impacts of the coronavirus outbreak intensify. The Reserve Bank will buy up to NZ$30 billion ($17 billion) of government bonds in the secondary market over the next 12 months, it said in a statement Monday. It will seek to buy NZ$750 million bonds a week across a range of maturities, via an auction process, it said. The program will begin this week with NZ$500 million of purchases.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The coronavirus pandemic is hampering the fight against locusts in East Africa as the delivery of pesticides and equipment is delayed, heightening the threat to food security at the worst time.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Iran, the epicenter of the coronavirus in the Middle East, and Saudi Arabia reported new cases on Sunday as infections in Turkey and Israel neared 1,000. Stock markets in the Gulf extended losses.

At least four people were killed and several injured as President Alpha Conde defied international pressure and internal strife to hold a controversial referendum to revise the constitution. Two people died in clashes in the capital Conakry as security forces moved in to disperse protesters attempting to disrupt the vote, the Ministry of Security and Civil Protection said in a statement. Nine officers were injured and several people were arrested, according to the statement.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Italy banned any movement inside the country and reported another 651 fatalities on Sunday.

We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Congress is “close” to finalizing a stimulus bill to offset the impact of the coronavirus, but lawmakers are still talking, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said.

The Federal Reserve and other U.S. agencies are giving banks more leeway to ease debt burdens for borrowers hit hard by coronavirus without triggering rules that can put problem loans in a regulatory penalty box. Banks can modify loan terms, such as reducing interest rates or giving borrowers more time to pay their debt, without necessarily having to label those situations as “troubled debt restructurings,” or TDRs, according to a Sunday statement from the Fed, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and other regulators. The agencies raised an example of lenders giving borrowers six-month long modifications that could include payment deferrals, fee waivers and repayment extensions.

South Africa’s government won praise for taking swift action to contain the coronavirus outbreak. It’s said little on how it plans to protect the economy. With just 61 infections on March 15, President Cyril Ramaphosa imposed travel bans, instructed schools to close and outlawed large gatherings. He followed up with restrictions on restaurants and effectively closed bars, beating many worse-afflicted countries to the move. The central bank cut interest rates by the most in more than a decade at its scheduled policy meeting and boosted liquidity in local markets.

Guineans took the polls Sunday in a controversial referendum to revise the constitution, paving the way for President Alpha Conde to seek a third term, despite concern from the European Union and regional heads of state. The vote that takes place on the same day as long-delayed parliamentary elections is widely seen as a power grab by the 82-year-old president, who assumed office in 2010 and is due to step down this year after completing two five-year terms.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. South African President Cyril Ramaphosa will meet with business leaders today as the government mulls relief measures to mitigate the impact of the novel coronavirus outbreak on the economy.

We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. President Donald Trump is pledging to fund National Guard missions in New York, Washington and California to help stem the spread of coronavirus.

Tanzanian President John Magufuli was criticized for asking people to continue going to places of worship at a time when restrictions should be stepped up to curb the coronavirus outbreak. Just before announcing six more confirmed cases of the virus to take the country’s total to 12 on Sunday, Magufuli was in church where he likened the pandemic to Satan, needing divine intervention to be quelled. Tanzania should take precautions but the government hasn’t prohibited prayers in mosques and churches because that’s where “there is true salvation,” Magufuli said in Swahili during a church service in the capital, Dodoma.

Luxury fashion conglomerate Kering SA said it would switch to producing surgical masks at the French workshops of its Balenciaga and Saint Laurent brands as the country ramps up its efforts to contain the coronavirus. Both brands will start making the masks for French hospitals as soon as they have the approval of health authorities, Kering said in a statement. In the meantime, the group will donate 3 million masks ordered from China.

Qatar banned social gatherings and introduced enforcement measures including checkpoints and mobile police patrols as part of an effort to contain the spread of the coronavirus. “All types of gatherings are prohibited, including gathering in vehicles,” Ministry of Interior representative Colonel Hassan Al Kuwari, director of Central Operations at the Ministry of Interior, said at a press conference announcing the measures Saturday. “If there is more than one person in a car, they will be stopped and questioned.”

Turkish Airlines will start a buyback program after it’s approved at its shareholders’ general assembly meeting scheduled on March 31, Chairman Ilker Ayci said on Sunday. Around 85% of the carrier’s passenger planes are not being used at the moment, Ayci said in an interview with CNNTurk television, after Turkey suspended flights from more than 60 countries because of the coronavirus outbreak.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni has ordered the closure of all borders from midnight Sunday after the eastern African country reported its first coronavirus case.

Walt Disney Co. is pressing ahead with the March 24 launch of its new video streaming service, Disney+, in Europe, with some minor changes in light of the coronarvius. The debut in France will be delayed until April 7 at the request of the French government, Disney said in a statement. The CEO of Orange SA, the Paris-based telecommunications giant, had called for it to avoid overloading its networks.

(AP) -- The board overseeing New York City’s jails urged officials to start releasing vulnerable populations and those being held on low-level offenses as the coronavirus outbreak hit the notorious Rikers Island complex and nearby jails — infecting at least 38 people. Another inmate, meanwhile, became the first in the country to test positive in a federal jail.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Kampala, Uganda (AP) -- As the coronavirus infects more people around the world, conservationists are warning of the risk to another vulnerable species: Africa's endangered mountain gorilla.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Singapore said it will bar all short-term visitors and limit foreign workers from entering to reduce the risk of imported cases of the coronavirus.

Coordinated riots across Colombia’s prison system on Saturday evening left 23 inmates dead at one Bogota jail and two in a maximum security facility 100 miles north-east of the capital.  Inmates started fires and protested violently against overcrowded and unsanitary conditions which leaves them vulnerable to the coronavirus pandemic.

Philippine Congress will craft a stimulus package of at least 200 billion pesos ($3.93 billion) when it meets Monday to discuss a supplemental budget to shore up the economy from the impact of a lockdown aimed at containing the coronavirus outbreak. “What we talked about is an amount that won’t be less than 200 billion pesos in the next two months to make sure no Filipino will go hungry nor have no access to medicine,” House Speaker Alan Peter Cayetano said in a video posted on his Facebook account after a meeting with President Rodrigo Duterte Saturday.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Franco Fubini, who founded fruit and vegetables seller Natoora Ltd., is used to charging celebrity chefs a premium price for carefully tended produce, like white peaches from Italy, Sicilian pomegranate and Essex heirloom tomatoes.

We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Sweden’s Prime Minister Stefan Lofven said his country should be prepared for more restrictive measures, while pleading with citizens to act to limit the spread of the coronavirus.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Emirates, the world’s largest long-haul airline, will suspend all of its passenger operations this week, in the latest concession to the coronavirus pandemic that has devastated global travel.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Look all you like at the stimulus packages and data releases. The reality is that traders probably have eyes for only one number: the infection rate.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. U.S. senators met Sunday in a bid to finalize a bipartisan bill worth more than $1 trillion to help soften the economic blow from the coronavirus pandemic.

Sign up for Next China, a weekly email on where the nation stands now and where it's going next. Home sales in China are starting to recover as the country lifts some restrictions imposed to battle the novel coronavirus outbreak, providing the first glimpse of how property markets may respond to the crisis.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Greece will impose a national lockdown from 6 a.m. on March 23 in an attempt to contain the spread of the deadly coronavirus.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Primark, the budget fashion chain owned by Associated British Foods Plc, has canceled all supplier orders that have yet to reach its distribution centers, Britain’s Sunday Times newspaper reported.

Amazon.com Inc. Chief Executive Officer Jeff Bezos warned his company’s 800,000 employees that the coronavirus outbreak will likely “get worse before it gets better,” according to an open letter shared Saturday on his Instagram account. The letter follows cries from U.S. lawmakers and his own employees that the world’s largest online retailer isn’t doing enough to protect its warehouse workers and delivery drivers who endanger themselves delivering products to Amazon customers looking to avoid stores.

For a fresh perspective on the stories that matter for Australian business and politics, sign up for our new weekly newsletter. Australia will enforce more stringent controls to slow the spread of the coronavirus, closing pubs, casinos, restaurants and other venues from Monday after the number of infections surged past 1,000.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told government officials to quickly come up with an economic plan and aid package in response to the coronavirus outbreak.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Nigerian police arrested a pastor and raided churches as the West African nation stepped up efforts to enforce a ban on large gatherings and contain the spread of the coronavirus.

The Pentagon, in a move to boost cash flow to large and small defense companies during the coronavirus crisis, will temporarily increase the percentages paid to contractors, known as periodic progress payments. Public interest groups called for the policy to be closely monitored.

Grim speculation about the fate of the global economy sent U.S. equity futures to exchange-mandated halts for the ninth time in 10 days. Benchmarks for American equities are now down more than 32% in a month. Warnings about damage to the economy from the coronavirus grew more dire as cities from New York to Los Angeles all but shut down and cases rose rapidly. Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard said U.S. unemployment may hit 30% in the second quarter, with GDP falling by 50%. That exceeds the warning from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. last week of a 24% contraction. Morgan Stanley said Sunday the contraction could be 30%.

MGM Resorts International named Bill Hornbuckle as its acting chief executive officer effective immediately, tapping the casino giant’s top lieutenant to take the reins during a time of crisis. The move accelerates the succession for longtime CEO Jim Murren, who had said in February he would step down when a replacement was found. The company decided to speed up the process in light of the impact of the coronavirus on the industry.

China’s more than 130 brokerages, who have a $21 trillion market to trade and make deals in, aren’t very good at making money. Their return on equity last year was just about half of Wall Street’s powerhouses, who are now preparing to rush in as the world’s second-largest economy opens its financial market fully to foreign banks. Of the some 80 sectors in Shanghai’s benchmark index, the industry ranks near the bottom, far, far below the more than 30% in returns China’s distillers make, for example.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said the Trump administration is nearing agreement with Congressional leaders from both parties on a massive aid program aimed at supporting the U.S. economy through the next 10 to 12 weeks.

The Federal Reserve can and probably will do more to support financial markets and the economy after rolling out a string of aggressive interventions over the past week, Minneapolis Fed President Neel Kashkari said. “Some people have suggested that we should be providing more support directly to the corporate bond market -- and I’m sympathetic with those views -- and also the municipal market, making sure that states and cities are able to access the capital markets as well,” Kashkari said in an interview on CBS’s “60 Minutes,” recorded Thursday and aired Sunday evening.

Russia’s Energy Minister Alexander Novak will meet executives from the nation’s key oil companies Monday as global crude prices hover at their lowest in nearly two decades, according to a person familiar with the schedule. The ministry plans to hold the meeting face to face rather than via a video link, the person said on condition of anonymity as the plans are not public. Last week, Deputy Minister Anastasia Bondarenko said the authority wanted to hold most of its meetings via teleconferences because of the coronavirus outbreak.

Congress could hand the U.S. Treasury at least $425 billion to backstop potentially much larger support by the Federal Reserve for business and municipal borrowers as part of an economic aid package being hammered out by the Trump administration and Congressional leaders. The latest draft of the Republican-written bill, which GOP lawmakers are trying to finalize and pass Monday, would authorize the Treasury to use $425 billion “to make loans, loan guarantees, and other investments in support of programs or facilities established by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for the purpose of providing liquidity to the financial system that supports lending to eligible businesses, states or municipalities.”

We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Two other Republican U.S. senators said they’ll go into self-quarantine after Rand Paul of Kentucky announced on Sunday that he’s tested positive for Covid-19.

Royal Philips NV is ramping up production of ventilators to double output within the next eight weeks and is targeting a four-fold increase by the third quarter to meet demand from hospitals overwhelmed by patients suffering from severe forms of Covid-19. The most-needed products are vital sign monitors, portable ventilators and medical equipment to treat a range of respiratory conditions, the Dutch company said in a statement late Sunday.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Cannabis may not be quite as essential as toilet paper, but consumers rushed to stock up nonetheless amid fears of widespread store closures.

We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Germany may borrow as much as 350 billion euros ($370 billion) in an unprecedented financing push to cushion the fallout from the coronavirus pandemic.

We're tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Australia’s pension funds fear government moves to give people early access to their retirement savings to cushion financial hardship will compound pressures caused by the market rout.

Oil clawed back some gains after plunging 29% last week as the U.S. signaled the possibility of a joint U.S.-Saudi Arabia alliance to stabilize prices. Futures in New York rose 3.2% Monday in a mixed day of trading. Prices initially bounced following a second wave of initiatives by the Federal Reserve to support a shuttered American economy. A rally in other risk assets such as equities was soured by a second failed effort by Congress to agree on a stimulus bill.

Thailand reported an additional 188 coronavirus infections in the country, its biggest one-day gain, as the outbreak worsened. The total rose to 599 cases, with seven patients in serious condition, Health Ministry spokesman Taweesilp Witsanuyotin said Sunday. Officials are urging people, especially in capital Bangkok, to stay home to halt the spread, he said.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Economies around the world will start to get a sense of the damage wrought by the coronavirus this week, as global central banks and governments continue their running battle to allay market fears over the scale of their response.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. North Macedonia plans to seek a 400 million-euro ($427 million) bridge loan from foreign lenders as the country tries to boost liquidity, fund the planned budget deficit and take measures to tackle the coronavirus pandemic.

U.S. President Donald Trump sent a letter to North Korean leader Kim Jong Un offering help fighting the coronavirus outbreak. The letter also included a plan for advancing ties between the countries, according to a statement from Kim’s sister, Kim Yo Jong, that was published by state-run Korean Central News Agency.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Angela Merkel’s ability to remain the public face of Germany’s coronavirus response was thrown into question after the chancellor quarantined herself at home following contact with a doctor who later tested positive for the disease.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. New rules prohibiting most Israelis from leaving their homes for the next seven days took effect on Sunday morning as the number of confirmed coronavirus cases approached 1,000.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Equity markets in the Gulf extended losses on Sunday despite regional governments trying to blunt the impact of the coronavirus with economic stimulus measures.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Polish President Andrzej Duda has rarely been busier than since he suspended his election campaign and called on rivals to follow suit amid the coronavirus outbreak.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell scheduled a vote Monday to try again to advance a $2 trillion stimulus plan after Republicans and Democrats failed to engineer a quick jolt to a sinking economy amid the rising coronavirus death toll, plunging financial markets and dire predictions of a deep recession.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Bond investors are looking for orientation points this week in a fog of panic that’s paralyzed parts of the world’s biggest and safest debt market.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. China’s mass deployment of medical aid to fight the coronavirus reached Africa as Ethiopia received its first shipment of supplies, including protective gear and test kits, for distribution across the continent from billionaire Jack Ma.

India will set up a nearly 100-billion-rupee ($1.3 billion) fund to encourage companies to manufacture pharmaceutical ingredients domestically after supply chain disruptions due to the coronavirus pandemic exposed the country’s dependence on China and raised the specter of drug shortages. The program includes spending on infrastructure for drug manufacturing centers, and financial incentives of up to 20% of incremental sales value over the next eight years, according to a government statement.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The German government asked domestic car manufacturers to consider producing medical equipment such as masks and ventilators to help fight the rapidly spreading coronavirus.

Joe Biden pushed back on suggestions that the November election could be postponed amid the coronavirus pandemic, saying Sunday it’s important that voting continues as it has during other crises in American history. “We have to let the electoral process run. We ought to be able to preserve our health and our democracy at the same time,” the 2020 Democratic front-runner said.

Australia’s most populous state, New South Wales, plans to close non-essential services over the next 48 hours to help slow the spread of the coronavirus. The state “will proceed to a more comprehensive shutdown of non-essential services,” New South Wales Premier Gladys Berejiklian said in a statement Sunday. She will inform the National Cabinet of the measures tonight.

Want to receive this post in your inbox every morning? Sign up here. Traders brace for more market mayhem as policy makers race to cushion the economic blow from the coronavirus, Australia shuts its pubs, restaurants and cafes, and China begins to talk up green shoots in its economy. Here are some of the things people in markets are talking about today.

Economic crises, in general, are terrible for mental health. This one, however, goes far beyond numbers in a portfolio, darkening every transaction, both social and commercial. How we behave as consumers may be fundamentally changed long after this pandemic is a dark footnote of history.   “It’s akin to a PTSD,” said Ilene Green, a Manhattan clinical psychologist. “All of this will be on people’s minds in really quiet ways indefinitely. …I would not call it a mental illness, but this kind of thing does get folded into the psyche.” The best recent proxy, according to Green, may be the 9/11 attacks. She never goes through Grand Central Station anymore without scanning for danger, triangulating escape routes. Days ago, Green did a similar sort of morbid calculus to return a sweater. It doesn’t help that we will likely be negotiating more than a year of gray area from the end of self-containment to the relative all-clear of a coronavirus vaccine. Those will be fraught months in which every transaction—every restaurant meal, every vacation—will be cranked through a cost-benefit analysis, overlaid and weighted by the news of the moment, namely fatality and infection rates. Consider the sharing economy. While health officials urge millions of people to shut their homes to friends and family, lending one’s car to a stranger is still fair game (at least it was when I wrote this). The country’s burgeoning car-sharing platforms are limping along, albeit with assurances that vehicles are cleaner than ever. Zipcar, a unit of Avis Budget Group, said it has upgraded its cleaning process with antiviral solutions and is waiving cancellation fees. It’s also encouraging members with Covid-19 symptoms to contact the company, so it can isolate and sanitize any vehicles they used, before returning them to the fleet.  Turo, a San Francisco-based platform with 10 million members, has also implemented a no-penalty cancellation policy and provided users tips for disinfecting cars and swapping keys remotely.  The average American sedan or SUV, it turns out, is often a speeding petri dish of sorts. Vehicles swapped widely among users aren’t unlike restaurant tables, albeit with more nooks and crannies to cultivate germs. Not surprisingly, car-sharing demand has declined, according to Turo, though the company would not quantify the dropoff. Car-swap platforms benefits from so-called network effects: the more people who use them, they better they work (and the more richly they are valued by investors like IAC and Softbank). In just a few weeks, however, Coronavirus has reversed and weaponized that chummy feedback loop. Volume, scale, foot traffic—all dirty words at the moment. The equation is similar across the sharing economy, from the dress racks of Rent-the-Runway to the scooter fleets of San Francisco. Green, the therapist, says consumers are running risk algorithms in their heads at a frenzied pace, a pace that will be hard to slow. “Are people going to want to come to my Airbnb? Do I want people in my Airbnb?” she wonders. “I do think it’s going to have an impact on how willing we are to engage in the same sorts of social transactions we did before.” How quickly companies recover from Covid-19 will have much to do with how carefully they consider the post-traumatic stress of pandemic consumers. If you run a retail empire, for example, you would be advised to build a system for remote and "no-contact" pick up. If you run a car dealership, the whole transaction ought to be iPhone-able, from the financing to the curbside delivery. And if you run an airline, a theater chain or cruise fleet (God help you), a sanitizing strategy will be as critical as a smooth supply chain. We might not be traveling much for the next 18 months, but when we do, germ-free seats will be fetching a premium. That's just logistics and marketing, however. There will be a human capital component as well. Imagine a restaurant staffed entirely by Covid-19 survivors? Stranger things have happened; they’re happening every day, unfortunately.

Congress is likely to pass legislation Monday clearing the way for more emergency action from the Federal Reserve, following already unprecedented steps from the central bank to keep credit markets liquid. Though details were unclear, lawmakers and Trump adminstration officials on Sunday signaled the package would give the Fed approval to expand its purchases of corporate bonds.

Helping the canned tuna industry cope with climate change tops an already lengthy to-do list for Darian McBain, chief sustainability officer at the Thailand company that owns the Chicken of the Sea and John West brands. In a business long accused by activists of abusing workers and killing dolphins, McBain’s responsibilities at Thai Union Group Pcl typically focused on improving labor rights in the supply chain and reducing the abandoned fishing gear on the high seas.

Real estate investor Tom Barrack said the U.S. commercial-mortgage market is on the brink of collapse and predicted a “domino effect” of catastrophic economic consequences if banks and government don’t take prompt action to keep borrowers from defaulting. Barrack, chairman and chief executive officer of Colony Capital Inc., warned in a white paper and in a subsequent interview on Bloomberg Television of a chain reaction of margin calls, mass foreclosures, evictions and, potentially, bank failures due to the coronavirus pandemic and consequent shutdown of much of the U.S. economy.

For a fresh perspective on the stories that matter for Australian business and politics, sign up for our new weekly newsletter. Australia’s most-populous state is tightening protocols for handling illnesses on cruise ships after the number of coronavirus cases linked to a vessel that disembarked in Sydney on Thursday surged to 26.

Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter (Bloomberg)--Zimbabwe has slashed its debt to South African power provider Eskom Holdings to $4 million from $33 million, the state-owned Sunday Mail newspaper reported, citing Energy Minister Fortune Chasi.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Germany’s economic and social crisis deepened as the government forecast that the coronavirus pandemic would lead to the biggest output contraction in more than a decade while it grappled with how to prevent containment efforts tearing at the social fabric.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Friday’s calm in emerging markets proved fleeting as the coronavirus outbreak worsened in Europe and the U.S. over the weekend.

Activist investor Carl Icahn is nearing a truce with Occidental Petroleum Corp. that will see three new directors appointed to the oil company’s board, according to people familiar with the matter. The deal would also see the billionaire investor support the return of Occidental’s former Chief Executive Officer Stephen Chazen as chairman, the people said, asking not to be identified because the matter is private. A settlement has yet to be signed, and the talks could still fall apart or the terms change, they said.

Facing enormous pressure to call off the 2020 Tokyo Games, the International Olympic Committee made its most public step yet toward postponing the world’s biggest sporting event. Following an executive board meeting on Sunday, the IOC said it would enhance its planning around potential changes to the games, including postponing the event, which was scheduled to begin July 24. But it said a cancellation of the games would not be considered.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. European leaders are scrambling to enforce unprecedented restrictions on the movement of their populations in a desperate attempt to prevent their health-care systems being overwhelmed by the coronavirus pandemic.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Boris Johnson warned he will impose “tougher measures” to curb the spread of coronavirus if people continue to ignore calls to stop social gatherings, with a decision coming as soon as Monday on whether to restrict movement “altogether.”

The chief investment officer of Veritas Pension Insurance Co. will review the firm’s hedge fund allocation amid concerns the asset class is adding little to overall returns. Kari Vatanen, who started as CIO at the Finnish fund this month, said he can’t guarantee that he’ll continue to allocate 7% to hedge funds, once his review is completed later this year.

U.S. stocks started the week down as investors saw little progress on a congressional spending package to blunt the fallout from the coronavirus pandemic. Measures of corporate credit risk eased after the Federal Reserve announced a massive second wave of initiatives to support a shuttered American economy. The S&P 500 closed lower, despite a late-session surge, after lawmakers failed to agree on a stimulus bill over the weekend and again fell short of the needed Senate votes for a deal on Monday. Tech shares outperformed, with the Nasdaq 100 eking out a small gain, as negotiations continued on Capitol Hill. Trading volumes remained above average.

India has plenty of space to cut interest rates as well as offer a fiscal stimulus, the government’s principal economic adviser said, and the main goal is to ensure that the nation’s economy doesn’t seize up amid a shutdown to contain the coronavirus. Policy makers’ immediate focus is ensuring Indians have cash in hand to buy essentials, Sanjeev Sanyal said in an interview in New Delhi on Friday. They are also aware that India faces “waves of default” if cash flows aren’t maintained, he said.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The global rush for dollars that’s been roiling the $6.6 trillion a day foreign-exchange market has showcased a missing piece of financial-safety architecture that world policy makers never addressed in the aftermath of the 2008 crisis.

KFC and Pizza Hut operator Yum China Holdings Inc. is trying out new business lines like catering and delivering raw food for home-cooking to boost revenue as Chinese customers shun eating out amid the coronavirus pandemic. Last month, China’s biggest fast-food chain operator began customizing menus for its corporate clients which allow employees to order food through KFC’s mobile app tailored to their budget. Pizza Hut is now delivering raw steaks -- complete with a recipe that details the exact minutes of frying time -- to home cooks. Delivery is “contactless”: riders drop the food off and stand two meters away to watch people pick up their items.

Police fired tear gas and pepper spray during clashes with protesters in Hong Kong’s Yuen Long area on Saturday night, Radio Television Hong Kong reported. Protesters blocked roads and set fires earlier in the evening, with clashes continuing until the early hours of Sunday morning.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. President Donald Trump caused consternation in Washington, Detroit and beyond when he tweeted on Sunday that he had given automakers the “go ahead” to start producing ventilators and other equipment desperately needed in the coronavirus pandemic.

Venezuela’s government is shutting fuel stations nationwide to ration dwindling gasoline inventories as a quarantine designed to stop the coronavirus paralyzes the country, seven people said. Just a few dozen of Petroleos de Venezuela SA’s 1,800 gas stations across the country will remain open and operated by the nation’s armed forces to allow medical, food and utilities’ transportation to fill up, said the people, who asked not to be named as the plan is still private.



















Hedge fund billionaire Bill Ackman renewed his call for a 30-day-shutdown to fight the coronavirus pandemic in a Twitter post on Monday, reacting to a tweet former Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein had posted ten hours earlier. Blankfein had supported “extreme measures” to flatten the virus curve, but said those at lower risk of the disease should return to work “within a very few weeks”, pointing out dangers a longer shutdown would bring to the economy.

The head of Brookfield Asset Management Inc. said markets volatility created in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic is much more manageable than previous meltdowns. “For us, compared to the direct hit we took on 9/11, this uncertainty and volatility feels manageable,” Bruce Flatt, Brookfield Chief Executive Officer, said in a letter to shareholders Monday. “In 2008, with the banking system failing, real asset owners didn’t know if many lenders were going to exist in the future. Today, the banking system is in far better shape. It never feels very good to have this degree of chaos, but this will pass.”

With German Chancellor Angela Merkel isolating herself, the effort to contain the spread of the coronavirus in Europe became even more complicated as leaders grapple with enforcing increasingly severe measures to control the pandemic. After coming into contact with a doctor who later tested positive, the German leader will be forced to chair an emergency cabinet meeting Monday via video conference. The gathering is to sign off on a plan to borrow as much as 350 billion euros ($370 billion) to counter the economic impacts of the virus.

Two weeks after the year’s biggest Merger Monday, dealmakers confronted the worst start to the week in more than five years. Only $2.3 billion of deals, from 94 transactions, were announced Monday, the lowest total for that day of the week in at least five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. None of the deals topped $1 billion. The only Mondays with lower deal volume during the period were four that fell on U.S. public holidays, which Bloomberg didn’t include in this analysis.

Michael Berkowitz is a student of disaster, and a guru on how cities weather them. As the former executive director of the nonprofit consultancy 100 Resilient Cities, and now as founding principal at the similar Resilient Cities Catalyst, he has worked with dozens of local governments around the world to plan for hurricanes, droughts, earthquakes, terrorist attacks, mass shootings, disease outbreaks, and other social shocks. Now, as a global catastrophe unfolds in the form of coronavirus, Berkowitz is trying to think ahead as he shelters at home in New York City. He’s looking for signs of how communities will survive the aftermath, as well as for opportunities to strengthen resilience now in the face of social and economic disruption. “The key is to think about linking various objectives together,” he said over the phone. “How can one particular intervention succeed in strengthening a city across a lot of different areas?” Berkowitz, who also served as deputy commissioner of New York City’s office of emergency management in the aftermath of the September 11 terrorist attacks and has done global risk management at Deutsche Bank, spoke with CityLab over the phone on Thursday. This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity. First: Define this concept of resilience in cities. What is it, and how do you build it? Urban resilience is the ability or capacity of a city to survive and thrive in face of disaster, any kind of disaster. It turns out that the capacities that cities — or states, or nations — need to survive and thrive in the face of all these different threats are pretty broad. It includes good infrastructure that promotes mobility and sustainable transportation. It’s also cohesive communities where neighbors check in on neighbors. It’s a diverse economy with a strong middle-class jobs base. It’s good governance with multiple stakeholders at a decision-making table. All of those things help communities overcome whatever the next crisis might be. To build resilience, the trick is linking different goals together. When you’re doing economic development, how can you also make yourself better protected for floods? When thinking about mobility, how can you increase biodiversity or reduce exposure to extreme heat? When thinking about governance and community engagement, how do you build trust and confidence in elected officials so that in crisis situations people listen to and follow the advice of elected leaders? What are the best examples of good governance you’ve seen so far in the coronavirus response? Well, one observation is how governors seem to be having much more impact than mayors during this pandemic, because they’ve been able to have a remit across various administrative boundaries. In New York state, the first cluster of case was north of the city in Westchester County, in New Rochelle. By now, obviously New York  [City] has seen the majority of cases. But while the mayor has been important spokesperson, the governor has wielded much more power and has been able to unify the state around Westchester. It’s been the state that has acted more quickly around testing, setting up the drive-through testing sites, including one in the city. So that’s been in an interesting example of state authority, which I never would have expected, by the way. In old East Coast cities, with their protocols and histories and legal authorities for public health emergencies because they dealt with smallpox, tuberculosis, cholera, and other plagues of old, I would have thought that mayors would be in the driver’s seat with this. But it feels like governors are leading the charge. How would you rate the resilience that the U.S. has shown so far? Michael Kimmelman wrote this week in the New York Times about how pandemics are anti-urban because the things we value in cities, like density and connection, are the things that are least desirable during a pandemic. That’s true — but only in the response phase, which we’re in right now. The things that we need now are very particular: It’s public health surveillance and testing capacity. It’s the ability to innovate and produce therapies, whether those are vaccines or anti-viral treatments. It’s surge capacities in hospitals, whether it’s ventilators and masks or more beds. It’s the ability of the public to absorb and adhere to advice that we’re getting about protective measures to take. But one way or another, in the coming months or later, we will break the chain of transmission. Then we’re going to look up and have our small businesses hurting or closed, our most poor and vulnerable people suffering, lots of people in the middle class who didn’t have safety nets or full-time employment looking for work, the stigmatization of various ethnic, racial, or demographic groups who we think might have done things to put us at risk — all of this is going to stress our society so significantly. And when that next phase hits, that’s when we’ll see benefits of urban resilience — of neighbors checking in on each other, strong neighborhood institutions, diverse economies, good governance. Those things will pay off in ways that will let us rebound from this situation and hopefully let us build stronger communities. The thing is, we’re still so early in. A week of staying at home feels like forever, but we’re just at the very tip of the iceberg in many ways. We’ll see which communities are more or less resilient in the next months and years to come. What kinds of actions should communities take now to prepare for that second phase?   I feel like it’s a little premature, since we’re still on a steep upslope of trying to flatten the curve and making sure our hospitals and medical system can make it through intact. But I will say that when Congress starts talking about delivering aid to people, institutions, and businesses, that’s when you start to think about the resilience-building opportunities we might have. What might some of those opportunities be? In the U.S., there is probably going to be a jobs stimulus. And that will likely come with a lot of new infrastructure that we build. That gives us this incredible opportunity to build more resilient infrastructure and to engage communities as we do it, since they’re going to live with it for generations. We should also talk about climate change mitigation and adaptation, because if we’re potentially going to get a whole new generation of infrastructure because of this pandemic, then we have to do it better than last generation. Meaning, like, no highways that segregate communities from economic centers. We should also set new goals — we have the tools to think about economic development, public health, biodiversity, and flood control all at once. We have the beginnings of examples of what those types of projects look like, such as building large swaths of green infrastructure to protect cities from sea level rise, like the BIG U in Manhattan. There will also be any number of different aid packages to promote economic development and community institutions, in and out of government. With the right guidelines we can make sure those investments work for multiple benefits. One example is how, after Hurricane Katrina, New Orleans saw itself as overexposed to climate change as well as the petrochemical industry. Over the past five years, the city has tried to incubate a water management sector that the city could then export as a core competency, in the way the Dutch do. So how do cities diversify economies in a way that solves multiple goals, whether it’s racial justice or mobility or health. One last idea — I haven’t thought too much about this yet, but it seems like we’re going to bail out the airline industry. Well, what if we took some of that money and dedicated it to high-speed rail? That’d be huge. And what if we used the bailout money to push airlines towards carbon neutrality sooner than they’d normally get there? They are a huge contributor to the climate crisis. What a good idea. Congress, are you listening? Right. I just know [U.S. Secretary of the Treasury] Steve Mnuchin is going to read this, call me up, and just get on this. These are large-scale changes to improve the resiliency of infrastructure and economies — what about for individuals or neighborhoods? What can they do to strengthen our collective recovery? Even action at really small scales can feel great and start to set an example of what is possible. You can imagine that if we’re in for a prolonged economic downturn our most vulnerable communities will feel that first and in the most pronounced ways. When these shelter-in-place or social distancing restrictions are lifted, people are going to come out in a real big way. Wouldn’t it be great if we harnessed some of that to improve what our streetscapes look like, in a way that adds greenery and reduces trash and just really improves things? One example: There is great evidence about how taking small abandoned parcels of land and rejuvenating them can transform a community. A study published in JAMA from a couple of years ago surveyed people living near vacant lots that were cleaned up and replanted for just a really small amount of money. The researchers found a 41.5% reduction in people who reported feeling depressed, and a 62.8% reduction in poor mental health. That’s astounding. Small interventions can work. People taking initiative to make things better will be appreciated when this thing lifts.   What are some other ways that individuals can help? I do think that there is a lot to be said for patronizing local businesses and being intentional about that. Right now, Amazon is doing really well, and while I don’t want to talk badly about them, it’s worth thinking about the local small- and medium-sized enterprises which will be hard hit. And there might be some innovative ways to help them. At 100 Resilient Cities, we had a really interesting platform partner called Colu, a cryptocurrency [Ed: Colu no longer operates as a cryptocurrency] that lets you set up a local virtual currency as a way to reward different kinds of behavior. It let people get credits by participating in civic activities or volunteer work, and then they could spend that through local institutions. It was deployed in Tel Aviv. When we’re talking about depressed economies, that could be an interesting way of kickstarting things like civic participation, which I think will be really important. It’s obviously true that more crises await us in the future — but one thing that is especially hard about this one is the total lack of certainty about the duration. It’s hard to imagine the future because the end of coronavirus — with all of its human, social, emotional, and economic costs — is so difficult to make out. As someone who has a lot of experience with disaster, do you have any advice or remarks for those of us struggling with the scale and uncertainty of all this? I haven’t been through a big public health emergency like this before, but yes, I’d say a couple of things. One, we know there can be an amazing bond among people who survive things like this together. The sociologist Enrico Quarantelli found that in disasters and immediately after there is a lot of good will and community spirit. As many of us are seeing now and hearing anecdotally, people are smiling more and helping each other. This sense that we’ll get through this together is really important. I’d also say that, again, I do think we’re going to have an amazing opportunity to transform ourselves, our communities, and our economies with all the stimulus that is likely coming. But ironically, and painfully, we might be least prepared to do that. In most disasters I’ve seen, which have been physical, there is just not the ability to think strategically in that way. Too often after a hurricane or a big earthquake, where communities have a real opportunity to think more holistically about how to rebuild, they just can’t — it’s just human to just put things back like they were and not make them better. In Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria, or in Christchurch following their big earthquake, and in New Orleans after Katrina — in all of those cases, initially there was not the bandwidth to think about things more strategically until like five years down the line. Initially, there are just too many people hurting. So that will be a big question. Will we have the strategic gumption to make things better? That is the $1 trillion question right now for our leaders. So let me go back to a smaller scale. How can individuals prepare to hold their elected officials accountable to that kind of change? After this crisis in particular, where transmission is person-to-person and your neighbors are potentially the ones getting you sick, it will be important not to just retreat behind our screens and phones. We know that cities with the strongest and most robust civic networks pull through the best in disaster — the more you know your neighbors and understand your community boards and really can get engaged, the stronger and more resilient you are. If we can get engaged with each other, we can be more prepared for the next thing that is coming. Thinking really intentionally about how to build more resiliency with every intervention we take is going to be critical to taking this crisis and turning it into an opportunity. Just because we’re focused rightly on this incredible thing does not mean there are not more crises waiting for us. Because, look, hurricane season starts in June.

President Donald Trump gets passing marks for his handling of the coronavirus crisis, but the nation’s governors and public health officials get the highest grades. A Monmouth University Poll released Monday shows 50% of Americans say Trump has done a good job handling the outbreak, compared with 45% saying he’s done a poor job. Those numbers largely fall along partisan lines.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. South Africa is considering establishing a ‘National Disaster Benefit’ fund that would pay workers compensation when they are laid off because of the effect of the coronavirus outbreak on businesses.

The OriginIn late March 2009 the H1N1 virus—aka swine flu—first appeared in California. Within a month the first Americans began to die from the virus. In June the World Health Organization and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention had declared it a pandemic. As the death toll mounted, companies scrambled to come up with a vaccine. By early fall, it was ready. The SuitDr. Richard Daines, a former New York state health commissioner, ordered every health-care worker to be vaccinated against the virus. If they didn’t do so by Nov. 30, they could be fired. The New York State Public Employees Federation and three nurses led by Lorna Patterson, an emergency room nurse at the Albany Medical Center, sued Daines, claiming he’d exceeded his authority in issuing his order. Besides, Patterson said at a news conference, “it takes away from our freedom of choice.” The RulingOn Oct. 16, to the surprise of many, acting Justice Thomas McNamara of the New York State Supreme Court issued a stay, which prevented Daines’s mandate from going into effect. One argument that appeared to sway the judge was that the vaccine had been raced into production without proper testing. The nurses, their lawyer said after the stay was issued, “feel very strongly that they are being set up to be guinea pigs.” The OutcomeThe case never did get to trial. A few weeks later, New York Governor David Paterson suspended the mandatory vaccinations. The reason? A shortage of vaccines. The federal government was able to supply only one-fifth of the vaccines it had promised. In the end, swine flu made 60 million Americans sick; there were 273,000 hospitalizations and 12,400 deaths. But because this decade-old case was never resolved, we still don’t know whether a state official can mandate citizens to be vaccinated. With the  anti-vax movement being what it is, you can rest assured we’ll see more cases like this one as soon as a vaccine for the new coronavirus becomes available.  • That didn’t take long: Among the 2,421 people stranded on the Grand Princess off the coast of California after the coronavirus swept through the ship, a half-dozen have already  sued Princess Cruise Lines Ltd. More lawsuits are sure to come.  • The Theranos angle: On March 9, Fortress Investment Group LLC sued BioMérieux SA, which is working on a Covid-19 vaccine, claiming patents it bought from Theranos were being violated. BioMérieux denied the allegation. After a backlash, Fortress said it would offer royalty-free licenses. So Theranos’s technology isn’t worthless after all. Nocera is a columnist for Bloomberg Opinion. Read more:  This Famous AIDS Researcher Is Racing to Find a Coronavirus Treatment

One morning last week, I woke up to see videos of my friends in New York City, France and Italy serving their voluntary and mandated coronavirus quarantines at home. Meanwhile, in Singapore, I watched my brother — someone suffering from kidney disease and diabetes — head out the door to work at a Nike retail store at Vivocity, one of the biggest shopping malls in Singapore. I returned to Singapore from New York City on March 10, not to flee Covid-19, but only because I had the flight booked three months prior. This was before cities like New York plunged into lockdown as the first U.S. cases of the disease began spreading. Now I’m reading about panic shopping, eerily empty streets, mass unemployment, and grave fears about ill patients poised to overwhelm an unprepared American health care system. In Singapore, I’ve been feeling like I’m living in an alternate reality from the rest of the world. On a recent grocery run, store aisles were full and it did not look like anyone was stockpiling, only buying what they need for the next couple of days. McDonalds was crowded with schoolchildren studying and playing with their phones. (Schools are not closed here.) Inside the mall, a Muji sale drew a large crowd and long lines. The trains were packed with workers in office attire. Outside, the hawker centers were full of elderly people drinking coffee and chit-chatting about their families or weather. I asked my brother if he thought it was dangerous to go to work at the mall, or if he was scared of touching people’s feet all day and sizing them up for shoes. “No, not at all,” he told me. “At work we have to take our temperature twice a day, so it’s safe.” “You can still have coronavirus even without a fever,” I said. He shrugged. A friend asked me to go to a movie with him and a few other people last week. “Are you scared of coronavirus, or have you been going out as usual?” I asked, genuinely curious. “No,” he said. “The panic buying, stocking up on masks and toilet paper, all that, it’s over. We got through it in January. Life has to go on.” He’s been going out clubbing two or three times a week now. He showed me photos — the club was popping. I wondered: Is this what the normalcy on the other side of the coronavirus crisis looks like? Singapore was among the first places outside China to experience the outbreak: It recorded its first case of Covid-19 back in January 23, on the same day that Chinese authorities locked down the city of Wuhan. Singapore soon had the second-highest number of cases of Covid-19 after China, attributed in large part to travelers from China coming to Singapore over the Lunar New Year. But since then, this densely populated city-state of 5.8 million people has been able to keep its numbers down with some success while other countries —  South Korea, Iran, and then Italy — surged ahead. Singapore’s health system — aided by the city-state’s well-known regime of technological surveillance — responded swiftly and aggressively: Hospitals started redividing teams and had wards emptied out to make space for pneumonia cases, as well as for non-pneumonia patients with travel to China, in case they were infected as well. By testing all pneumonias as well as coughs and fevers, officials were able to pick up and track community transmissions quickly. Temperature screening was rapidly rolled out at the airport, entrances to office buildings, schools and workplaces. Singapore also doggedly traced and tested suspected cases, put all close contacts of a confirmed case under home quarantine, plotted clusters of infection and then made this information transparent and accessible to the public. Confirmed cases have their age, gender, address and places they visited listed on the Ministry of Health’s website. Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong and a special ministerial task force focused on Covid-19 frequently share videos and social media updates about their interventions, explaining any new risks and reassuring people that they are prepared, that citizens do not have to stockpile or plan for a lockdown, and to only buy what they need. Those measures have succeeded in keeping the rate of local transmission low — only between 5 to 15 cases each day are from contracting the virus locally — and Singapore’s aggressive response was praised by the World Health Organization for its “all of society, all-government approach.” And while Europe and the United States have clamped down borders, canceled events, and closed offices, restaurants and other public spaces, the Singapore government has managed to maintain a strong sense of normalcy amid the pandemic. Large gatherings, senior-centric activities and after-school events may be canceled and social-distancing regulations limiting seating are in effect, but people still go out to movies and restaurants. Some firms might ask their Singaporean employees to work from home, but many workers still go to their offices every day. The government has reminded us to only wear masks if we are unwell. To my surprise, Singapore has managed to keep a lid on community transmission without relying on broad testing, as South Korea has done. Their approach was to focus on vulnerable populations and those who were ill, so that hospitals are not overwhelmed by suspected cases. After arriving from New York, I called my neighborhood polyclinic — governmental community clinics — to ask if I could get swabbed just in case I was an asymptomatic carrier. I learned that polyclinics would send people with a history of travel to high-risk regions and respiratory symptoms to get tested. But the United States was not part of the list at that time, and I did not have respiratory symptoms, so I was told I would not be tested. (On March 19, the U.S. was added to that list of high-risk regions.) But as the disease spreads in Europe and the U.S., Singapore is now looking at stricter approach. In the past several days, more new cases began emerging, including a new high of 54 on March 23. About 80% of these new Covid-19 infections were imported, largely from Singaporean residents and long-term pass holders returning from abroad. Singapore also reported its first two deaths attributed to the virus. On March 18, Minister for National Development Lawrence Wong, who co-chairs a ministerial task force to tackle the virus, announced an expansion of the Stay-Home Notice, which mandates that travelers and returning residents must remain inside a local residence or hotel for 14 days. Once only for those coming from virus hotspots, it will now apply to all inbound passengers to Singapore, regardless of country of departure. Unlike the voluntary shelter-in-place requests issued by other U.S. states and countries, Singapore’s system is rigorously enforced with phone calls, random home visits, and technology. Those under Stay-Home Notice are texted several times a day, for example, so that they can check in via GPS to confirm their whereabouts. Wong also said that the city was tightening its social distancing rules, putting a 250-person cap on large gatherings and mandating one-meter spaces between restaurant diners and event attendees. And as of Monday, March 23, all short term visitors will also not be allowed to enter or transit through Singapore. “We have to do more stringent measures,” he said in a press conference, “and it cannot just be business as usual.” Meanwhile, neighboring Malaysia is enforcing a nationwide movement control order from March 18 to 31 to ban Malaysians from traveling abroad, halt mass gatherings, restrict foreigners coming in and shut down all schools. Manila is shutting down transportation links in and out of the city. Still, the updated health regulations in Singapore don’t suggest everyone self-quarantine or stay indoors, the way that many cities in Europe, the United States and our neighboring countries are doing. And over the weekend after the new rules were announced, life seemed minimally affected. For now, at least, I still have my feet in two worlds; seeing friends in America and Europe put their daily lives on hold while outside my condominium window, families are swimming together, children are playing in the playground and office workers are returning home. Have Singaporeans become a little too confident that they’re protected from the spread of the virus? When I asked Nur Atiqa Asri, a Singaporean urban planner currently residing in Brooklyn, about conditions here, she was shocked to see crowds of people walking around in Singapore. “I totally understand that Singapore has some of the best health care in the world, but Singaporeans are also some of the most mobile residents of the world,” she said. “So even if they’re not contracting the virus at home, there are others who are getting it elsewhere. I worry more about the older segments of the population, people who are around my parents’ age that are still warming up to the idea that they need to take extra precautions — definitely driven by complacency and overconfidence in Singapore’s systems.” The difference was also jarring for Xi Jie Ng, a Singaporean artist in residence at UMass-Dartmouth who recently chose to return to Singapore. “Having just come from the U.S., where my community is taking this very seriously because their government has failed them, where my friends are self-quarantining and maintaining six-feet distance if out for walks, it feels dissonant for my currently high-alert system to see people out here,” said Ng. “Our cases are definitely going to rise, because people flying home to the comfort of ‘best-in-the-world’ Singapore are spreading it if they don’t home-quarantine first.” Ng self-quarantined when she arrived, and overall, she still has a lot of confidence that Singapore can continue to suppress the outbreak. “Here the palm trees are swaying and the birds are chirping, a la tropical paradise — a paradise that can manage the coronavirus,” she said. “I guess if we can be a little more careful while being grateful for our health care system and fast-acting government, we’ll be all right.”

Some of Canada’s largest banks are revising down their growth forecasts once again as industry shutdowns and layoffs suggest the recession will be deeper than originally expected. The nation’s economy is likely to shrink by somewhere between 10% and 24% in the second quarter on an annualized basis, the latest forecasts show. That would mark the largest quarterly decline since at least the early 1960s, when comparable data began.

The Democratic National Committee is looking at contingency options for its July convention amid a growing expectation that the coronavirus crisis will not have abated by the time the parties are ready to nominate their presidential candidates. “As we navigate the unprecedented challenge of responding to the coronavirus, we’re exploring a range of contingency options to ensure we can deliver a successful convention without unnecessary risk to public health,” Katie Peters, communications director for the DNC’s convention committee, said in a statement.

Want the lowdown on European markets? In your inbox before the open, every day. Sign up here. Egyptian billionaire Naguib Sawiris said he is increasing his exposure to gold as the traditional haven struggles amid the market turmoil.

Occidental Petroleum Corp. was downgraded to junk by Fitch Ratings as it struggles to combat a sharp decline in oil prices, making it the biggest fallen angel in this downgrade cycle. The exploration and production company’s long-term default rating was cut three levels to BB+ and may be downgraded further, Fitch said in a statement late Friday. Fitch is the second credit rater to downgrade Occidental, following an earlier ratings action by Moody’s Investors Service, officially making it a fallen angel. Its $35.2 billion of debt will leave investment-grade indexes at the end of the month, and it will be the largest high-yield issuer.

Bolivia’s top electoral authority called for a new date for the country’s presidential election, saying the May 3 vote became unfeasible after the government mandated a two-week nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus. The Supreme Electoral Tribunal said on Saturday it was suspending the electoral process for two weeks and called on political parties, the government and congress to select a new date for the vote.

Want to receive this post in your inbox every day? Sign up for the Balance of Power newsletter, and follow Bloomberg Politics on Twitter and Facebook for more. As governments worldwide race to shut down their societies to stop the spread of coronavirus and prevent their health-care systems from collapsing, the decisive actor will be the individual.

The Federal Reserve is wading into the $3.9 trillion municipal-bond market. But the central bank still has more levers it could pull in the asset class that’s been stung with the worst monthly rout on record. Last week, the Fed expanded its emergency lending program to provide liquidity to money market funds so it would include purchases of short-term municipal bonds, and on Monday, it tacked on support for variable-rate demand notes. Despite the rare intervention, the chorus of calls for more help is getting louder. In the last week, lawmakers, state officials and lobbying groups have all advocated for the unusual move of the central bank buying municipals, at least temporarily.

An Antarctic glacier that contains enough water to eventually raise global sea levels by 5 feet has been melting dramatically in the last two decades, according to NASA-led research published today in the journal Geophysical Research Letters. The finding brings new attention to the eastern coast of the coldest continent. Scientists previously thought ice melt there was slower than on the disintegrating western peninsula.  “These observations challenge the view of glacier stability in East Antarctica,” the authors write.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Germany has seen a trend toward the exponential growth in new cases flattening out and expects to see by Wednesday whether this is the case, according to the country’s public health authority.

The U.S. Supreme Court said copyright owners can’t sue for damages when a state government pilfers their work, ruling against businesses in a case stemming from the wreckage of the pirate Blackbeard’s flagship. The justices on Monday unanimously said states are protected by sovereign immunity. The court threw out a 1990 federal law that attempted to authorize lawsuits, ruling that the measure went beyond Congress’ constitutional authority.

European Union governments revived the membership hopes of North Macedonia and Albania by overcoming a French roadblock after months of deliberations, according to an EU official. Envoys of the 27-nation EU recommended that the European Commission, the bloc’s executive arm, take the necessary step to trigger accession negotiations with North Macedonia and Albania, the official said on the condition of anonymity.

HelloFresh SE’s six-day winning streak has left it trading within a whisker of a record high, defying the broader market rout as investors bet on increased demand for its meal kits from customers forced to stay at home. The company’s shares are among the few European stocks in positive territory since a slump in global equity markets accelerated this month. While HelloFresh shares initially fell with the broader market, they quickly reversed losses. The stock rose as much as 10% on Monday, briefly surpassing a previous closing high of 26.30 euros reached on March 5.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The world economy is guaranteed to enter its worst recession since the financial crisis in the first half of this year with a recovery in subsequent months likely but not assured, according to Bloomberg Economics.

Joe Biden’s campaign rushed to build a sophisticated television studio in his home to better communicate to the American people how he believes a president should deal with the coronavirus epidemic. But when he made his first live appearance there Monday, none of the major cable channels took it live. The moment illustrated the challenges the Democratic presidential front-runner faces during a crisis that has changed American life. While he’s beginning to prepare for the general-election campaign against President Donald Trump, Biden still hasn’t yet secured the Democratic nomination.

Harvard University forecast a decline in revenue and a slowdown in philanthropy due to the economic impact of the coronavirus outbreak. The school, with an endowment of $40.9 billion, has already begun reducing all discretionary, non-essential spending and may need to consider slowing the pace of capital projects in the future, Thomas Hollister, Harvard’s chief financial officer and vice president of finance, said Monday.

Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Unidentified militants overran a Mozambican town close to an area in which companies including Total SA and Exxon Mobil Corp. are developing liquefied natural gas projects worth almost $60 billion.

The Trump bull market has been laid low by a worldwide pandemic that threatens to sink the global economy. The Dow Jones Industrial Average has lost more than 30% of its value in just over a month, wiping out all of its gains since Donald Trump was elected on Nov. 8, 2016. The S&P 500 Index isn’t too far behind, while the Nasdaq Composite Index’s return remains in the green -- albeit on a downward trajectory with the rest.

It took two months to reach 100,000 coronavirus cases and just two weeks to get to 200,000. It only took four days for the tally to reach 300,000, a clear sign the pandemic is accelerating, the World Health Organization said. WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said it’s “heartbreaking” that the disease is present in almost every country in the world now.

Mark Zuckerberg said Facebook Inc. has donated its emergency reserve of 720,000 face masks, joining other tech corporations declaring aid in fighting the coronavirus pandemic. At the same time, Tesla Inc. chief Elon Musk said a shipment of face masks was stuck in transit. Facebook built up a stockpile of masks in case wildfires in its home state of California persisted. It’s now donated that supply, the Facebook chief executive officer said on his feed without specifying recipients. Facebook’s Journalism Project is also distributing $1 million in grants to support news reporting around the virus outbreak.

Welcome to the Brussels Edition, Bloomberg’s daily briefing on what matters most in the heart of the European Union. Sign up here to get it in your inbox every weekday morning. As Europe braces for what may be the steepest recession in living memory, its governments are preparing  measures that would be unthinkable a couple of weeks ago, including multiple  parallel credit lines with the region’s bailout fund. Even joint debt issuance is becoming  less of a taboo. Over a video call later today, EU finance ministers are expected to sign off on temporarily scrapping the bloc’s budget rules, paving the way for the enormous spending needed to cushion the fallout from the coronavirus pandemic. And all that while Europe’s most experienced crisis-fighter, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, is in self-quarantine after a doctor who vaccinated her tested positive for Covid-19.

Australia’s government services are under pressure as a wave of newly unemployed workers rush for financial aid, with massive queues forming outside welfare-support offices as businesses are shuttered due to the coronavirus. Social media on Monday showed photographs in Sydney, Melbourne and Canberra of people lining up to enter the buildings government-run offices for Centrelink, which offers welfare support for the unemployed. The nation’s main internet site that provides on-line access to government services had crashed.

Ford Motor Co. was cut to junk by S&P Global Ratings as the coronavirus pandemic delivers a shock to the global auto industry and renders the carmaker the largest fallen angel to date. S&P downgraded Ford’s credit rating one notch to BB+ and may cut it further, according to a statement. The move follows Moody’s Investors Service, which dropped its rating for the second time in six months earlier Wednesday. The automaker’s two high-yield ratings will remove its $35.8 billion of debt from the Bloomberg Barclays investment-grade index at the end of the month.

Hungary is considering implementing some type of a lockdown in a bid to contain the coronavirus, Prime Minister Viktor Orban said. Hungary is looking at international examples to see what type of lockdown works best, Orban told lawmakers on Monday. The government has already shut its borders to personal travel, closed schools and barred stores, with some exception, from staying open between 3 p.m. and 6 a.m.

Anheuser-Busch InBev NV withdrew its earnings outlook for 2020 and Pernod Ricard SA forecast a 20% drop in profit as the coronavirus pandemic eliminates most of the revenue that drinks makers get from bars and restaurants. AB InBev abandoned its target that earnings growth could reach 5%, the world’s largest brewer said Tuesday. Pernod now expects the steepest earnings decline in years.

Want the lowdown on European markets? In your inbox before the open, every day. Sign up here. A fresh report shows Swedbank AB handled about $40 billion in dirty money, and raises new questions about top management’s culpability.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The coronavirus pandemic is complicating funding in local capital markets for governments in sub-Saharan Africa, with a spate of failed bond auctions testimony to the risk-averse environment.

President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador said the nation’s companies shouldn’t expect bailouts or tax amnesties and that Mexico won’t tap a standing credit line with the International Monetary Fund even as other economies take extraordinary measures to fight a slump in activity. “No more bailouts in the style of the neoliberal period, which were given to banks, to large companies. No, don’t even think that there will be tax forgiveness or other mechanisms that were used before,” Lopez Obrador said Monday in his morning news conference.

The Federal Reserve ventured into political territory Monday by offering to directly finance U.S. companies, jumping ahead of Congress -- which is still arguing over similar assistance. Unveiling unprecedented measures to shelter the economy from the coronavirus, the Fed acted after the failure so far by U.S. lawmakers to advance a $2 trillion dollar stimulus package.

The historic volatility rattling global markets is making Direxion Shares cut the exposure of 10 leveraged funds. Bullish products will now seek daily leveraged investment results, before fees and expenses, of 200% of their underlying indexes starting on May 19, according to a statement from the firm. That’s down from 300%. Meanwhile, bearish ones will cut their exposure to -200%. Direxion is also closing eight funds due to lack of interest.

The novel coronavirus pandemic is testing the residential-solar sector, which had forecast strong growth this year but hasn’t faced a recession since it reached the American mainstream. Its key challenges are similar to those facing many other industries: how to close sales, complete installations, and convince homeowners to add solar panels during a period of unexpected and mounting economic uncertainty. But for some residential-solar companies, the biggest test may be how to reorient their marketing programs—which, new-fangled though the industry may be, still relies on old-fashioned door-to-door sales. “Until people feel safe again, door-to-door sales will be hit,” says Tara Narayanan, a solar analyst at BloombergNEF. “Installations will slow as well. I’m skeptical homeowners will have construction crews over during a time of social distancing.”

The Federal Reserve, racing again to contain mounting economic and financial-market fallout from the coronavirus, unveiled a sweeping series of measures that pushed the 106-year old central bank deeper into uncharted territory. In a surprise announcement Monday before markets opened in New York, the U.S. central bank said it will buy unlimited amounts of Treasury bonds and mortgage-backed securities to keep borrowing costs at rock-bottom levels -- and to help ensure chaotic markets function properly. It also set up programs to ensure credit flows to corporations as well as state and local governments.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Lawyers for WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange will make an application for bail Wednesday, on grounds he is vulnerable to the virus pandemic while in prison.

Bill Grabowski, the owner of Healthstar Inc. a pharmaceutical machinery business, has lived with his wife on the same piece of land in Quincy, Mass., for more than 30 years. Now, with U.S. equities imploding and states of emergency being declared across the country, Grabowski has decided to list his four-bedroom, four-bath house for just under $2.7 million. “The worst thing that happens is, nobody buys it,” he says. Grabowski isn’t alone. Some homeowners have looked at the country’s unprecedented economic and social tumult and decided to put their houses on the market, often with prices that correspond to a booming housing market.

U.S. stocks had the best day in almost a dozen years as investors rediscovered their appetite for risk with Congress closing in on an unprecedented spending bill to prop up the slumping economy. The dollar halted a 10-day winning streak. The S&P 500 rebounded from the lowest level since 2016, notching a third straight Tuesday turnaround -- and the biggest one-day gain since October 2008 -- after starting the week with a rout. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose more than 11% to clock its biggest advance since 1933.

Oil refiners across the U.S. are being forced to throttle back operations amid a historic plunge in gasoline demand and prices. Plants representing more than 10% of U.S. fuel-making capacity have cut back. Exxon Mobil Corp. has slowed rates at facilities in Texas and Louisiana, while others around Los Angeles and Philadelphia are taking similar action to stem a growing glut of gasoline, diesel and jet fuel. Phillips 66 said Tuesday many of its refineries are processing minimum amounts of crude.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Germany signed off on taking on billions in new debt as part of an unprecedented package totaling more than 750 billion euros ($800 billion) to cushion the fallout from the coronavirus pandemic.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Banco Santander SA said it won’t carry out any temporary suspensions of its 29,000-strong workforce in Spain during the novel coronavirus outbreak.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Russia is starting to restrict exports of some goods while easing imports as part of the government’s response to the global coronavirus crisis.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. London Stock Exchange Group Plc is pushing for annual company meetings to be held over the web this year, while investors are kept away by the coronavirus pandemic.

Turkish banks on Monday offered customers some relief from debt repayments and pledged more cash, the latest steps in the campaign to limit the economic fallout from the coronavirus outbreak. State lenders including Ziraat Bank, Halkbank and Vakifbank allowed clients to postpone repaying debt by three months. Banks also pledged to restructure existing loans to give companies grace periods of as long as 12 months when they aren’t required to make any payments.

The New York court system, one of the country’s largest and busiest, has stopped accepting non-essential filings and said it will begin holding virtual hearings in response to the coronavirus crisis. New York Chief Administrative Judge Lawrence Marks on Sunday ordered county clerks across the state only to allow filings in matters deemed essential, including criminal, child-protection and very urgent housing cases.

Want the lowdown on European markets? In your inbox before the open, every day. Sign up here. Europe’s Big Oil is curbing investor returns and taking the ax to spending as the market crash hammers earnings.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. First came the order to close up. Then the laying off of staff. Now small-business owners across the U.S. are bleeding cash and wading through paperwork to get financial assistance.

Hungarian opposition parties rejected fast-tracking a government bill that would give Prime Minister Viktor Orban the power to rule by decree indefinitely, arguing that it threatened to pave the way for the end of democracy. The vote in parliament on Monday, days before the expiration of a two-week state of emergency to fight the coronavirus, only delayed its passage as the premier’s ruling coalition has the supermajority that he needs to pass it in parliament next week.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Ethiopia closed its land borders and deployed security forces as it steps up measures to control the spread of the coronavirus, with 11 confirmed cases in the Horn of Africa nation.

The European Union’s executive arm is monitoring the developments in the world’s biggest carbon market after concerns over the impact of the coronavirus on the economy and industrial output slashed prices of allowances last week by the most since 2014. “We are aware that these are challenging times for financial markets, including the carbon market,” the European Commission said in a reply to questions from Bloomberg. “We are following the situation closely.”

Follow us  @middleeast for more news on the region. Floods across Iran have killed at least 11 people, according to reports, at a time when one of the world’s worst coronavirus outbreaks has already overstretched first responders and hospitals.

Euro-area consumer confidence saw a record slump in March as the coronavirus pandemic threatens to weigh on employment and household income. At minus 11.6, the gauge is now at its lowest since late 2014, when deflation fears ravaged the 19-nation bloc. The data -- published by the European Commission -- might not even fully capture the extent of the crisis as most responses were gathered before strict confinement measures were put into place.

Want the lowdown on what's moving European markets in your inbox every morning? Sign up here. Good morning. European nations are cracking down on daily life to stem the virus’s spread, a U.S. rescue package hit a stumbling block and there’s more brutal forecasts of the illness’s economic impact. Here’s what’s moving markets.

Not even Starbucks Corp. closing most of its U.S. and Canadian locations is enough to damp coffee’s rally as potential supply disruptions outweigh demand concerns. With more governments enacting nationwide lockdowns and many people staying home, there’s growing fears that labor and logistical interruptions will curb the flow of beans.

Amazon.com Inc.’s delivery delays of non-essential goods will extend for at least another month for many customers in the U.S. and Europe, stirring panic among online merchants who rely on the web retailer for business. The lengthening delivery times come on top of confusion over how the company identifies essential products, a task that appears to be performed by algorithms with little human oversight. Online merchants became alarmed Sunday when they saw delivery dates pushed into late April, meaning many of them will lose more than a month of sales in the fallout from the coronavirus outbreak.

Large municipal-bond funds run by BlackRock Inc., Nuveen, Pacific Investment Management Co. and Invesco Ltd. are unwinding a leveraged investment strategy that backfired this month, contributing to the flood of debt that’s been unloaded during a record-setting sell-off. Last week, fund companies began liquidating about 75 so-called tender-option bond trusts holding $1.2 billion worth of state and local government debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The trusts issue floating-rate notes to money-market funds and use the cash to buy higher-yielding long-term bonds. Mutual funds seek to pocket the difference in yield between the two.

European and U.S. buyers including Primark, the budget fashion chain owned by Associated British Foods Plc, have canceled about $1.5 billion of Bangladesh garment orders as the coronavirus outbreak roils demand. As many as 1,089 Bangladesh garment factories have seen orders getting scrapped, Rubana Huq, president of the Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association said on LinkedIn. That’s impacting lives of 1.2 million workers, she said.

The stock market and volatility are in the midst of an unprecedented synchronized swoon.The S&P 500 Index has fallen more than 7% over the past two sessions while the Cboe Volatility Index, a measure of how much that benchmark gauge is expected to move over the next 30 days, tumbled by more than 10 points. Before this, there had never been a combination of a two-day equity drop of at least 5% and a VIX retreat of at least 5 points. The dual declines could be a function of a market normalizing after high-profile blowups of short volatility bets, less demand to roll hedges after a major option expiry, or simple exhaustion. Record-setting levels of market fear aren’t easily sustained, and the drop in volatility expectations signals the most frenzied days of selling may be behind us.

ICU beds and ventilators shouldn’t be allocated on a first-come, first-served basis. Health-care workers should get priority. Patients with a better chance of recovery should get access to limited life-saving equipment over those who are sicker. Those and other guidelines were released Monday by a group of global medical experts and bioethicists, aiming to provide a dispassionate framework for decision making as some hospitals face a surge of patients suffering severe infections from the new coronavirus. The report’s departure point is grim: Rationing of life-saving equipment will be necessary in some places, in spite of hospitals’ and authorities’ best efforts to boost intensive-care units and ventilators. In other areas, rationing of life-saving care is already under way.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The Philippines is moving to tackle widening fallout from the coronavirus pandemic, with the central bank approving the purchase of government securities to help boost state funding and legislators granting President Rodrigo Duterte extra powers.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. ITV Plc canceled its 2019 dividend and abandoned its revenue outlook for 2020 after advertisers dropped work with Britain’s biggest commercial free-to-air broadcaster and restrictions on movement forced it to pause work on new shows.

European stocks snapped a two-day advance as the death toll from the coronavirus rose over the weekend and country leaders tightened restrictions. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index closed down 4.3%. The benchmark initially trimmed losses after the Federal Reserve said it would buy as much government-backed debt as needed, before dropping in afternoon trading as investors awaited progress on a U.S. stimulus bill in Congress.

Deborah Birx, the State Department physician tapped to advise Vice President Mike Pence on the government’s coronavirus response, said she tested negative for the disease over the weekend. Birx said she was tested after experiencing “a little low grade fever” on Saturday. “Probably a G.I. thing,” she said at a White House news conference on Monday.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. People are still testing positive for the new coronavirus in Wuhan four days after China said there have been no new cases in the city at the center of its outbreak, a local magazine reported, raising concerns that the virus could still be spreading there.

With coronavirus shutting down movie theaters in the U.S., films that should still be playing on the big screen are dominating most-downloaded lists. Over the weekend, Universal Pictures’ “The Invisible Man” and Walt Disney Co.’s “Onward” were the two most popular movies to buy or rent on FandangoNow, an online service. Both were supposed to be exclusively in theaters for the next several weeks, but those plans were upended when most of the 40,000 U.S. theaters closed due to the outbreak.

Property developers across India’s big cities have been asked to ensure their laborers have enough to eat, even though construction may have halted under a government-imposed lockdown to fight the coronavirus outbreak. The Hiranandani Group has organized 15 days of food rations for more than 4,000 laborers across sites. Oberoi Realty Ltd. will continue to pay its staff, and Boman Irani, vice president at the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India, said large contracting companies, such as Larsen & Toubro Ltd. and Shapoorji Pallonji group, have been asked to provide for their workers.

Chancellor Angela Merkel tested negative for the coronavirus according to an initial result, allaying concern over Germany’s leadership as Europe confronts the spiraling pandemic. “Further tests will be taken in the coming days” to confirm Merkel’s health, her chief spokesman Steffen Seibert said. Merkel was in good health and, like many others, doing the job from home, he said earlier.

Emerging-market carry trades are hurtling toward the biggest quarterly loss in at least two decades as the coronavirus fuels a wild rush into the world’s reserve currency. Returns on trades in which investors borrow in dollars to invest in developing-nation currencies have slumped 13% so far this year, the most since at least 1999, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.

Ecuador’s Congress called on the government to suspend debt payments to free up cash to deal with the coronavirus pandemic, prompting JPMorgan Chase & Co. to warn of a potential default as soon as Tuesday. The South American nation’s $3 billion of bonds due in 2028 fell 3.5 cents to a record low 31 cents on the dollar, pushing yields to 33%. Ecuador has about $320 million of debt due tomorrow and coupon payments later this week.

Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are demanding that managers of collateralized loan obligations put up more cash to finance the deals after prices on the underlying corporate debt went into a freefall. The banks provide financing facilities called warehouses, which CLO managers use to buy risky debt known as leveraged loans before they package and sell them as bonds. JPMorgan and Goldman, which are among the biggest providers of warehouse financing on CLOs that have market-value triggers, demanded the extra collateral after average loan prices tumbled last week, according to people familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified discussing a private matter.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Italy is being dragged deeper into a recession after the coronavirus outbreak that’s crippling its northern regions forced the government to ban movement inside the country and shutter almost all industrial production.

Cyprus will impose a national lockdown from 6pm on March 24 to April 13 in an attempt to contain the spread of the deadly coronavirus. “We are truly at war,”  which “is a war that can be won if we stay sheltered,” Cyprus President Nicos Anastasiades said in a televised address. An out-of-control outbreak of the virus would lead to the collapse of the country’s health service, he said.

The devaluation of the Nigerian naira will put pressure on the assets of lenders struggling to raise asset quality to the regulatory threshold, according to Moody’s Investors Services. Africa’s largest oil producer on March 20 devalued by 4% the local unit versus the dollar, a move that will cause concern for Nigerian banks’ credit book and capital metrics “as they have a high proportion of foreign-currency denominated loans,” Peter Mushangwe, an analyst at Moody’s Investors Service said in emailed response to questions on Monday.

Economists say the U.S. is entering a sharp recession, with some projecting gross domestic product is headed for its worst drop in quarterly records back to 1947. Containing the outbreak has forced the world’s largest economy to a sudden stop, shuttering businesses that are in turn cutting millions of jobs. GDP estimates range widely, but most economists expect a severe second-quarter drop will be followed by a rebound in the second half of the year as the pandemic abates.

At the Belén migrant shelter in the southern Mexican city of Tapachula it’s afternoon recess – one of the two times each day that residents are allowed out of the facility’s front doors. An 18-year-old asylum-seeker from Honduras, who asked to be called John, sits in the sun on a boulder, a face mask slung around his neck. A few miles south, Mexico’s river border with Guatemala – which John crossed last month after fleeing his infamously violent hometown San Pedro Sula – is now fenced off due to the coronavirus pandemic. Guatemalan soldiers in face masks guard the bridge. John received his own mask from shelter staff and, along with other inhabitants, has been instructed to wash his hands regularly, stay clean and inform officials of any Covid-19 symptoms. But social distancing is impossible in this overcrowded facility. Belén’s official capacity is 130, but as of June 2019 some 325 people were bunking in the Catholic-run shelter, according to a study by the International Organization of Migration. Residents share fifteen showers between them, sleep together in dorms and eat communal meals – a nightmare scenario for infection control. Last week shelter director César Augusto Cañaveral Pérez announced Belén would close its doors to new residents to try to prevent a coronavirus outbreak. But John has bigger concerns than catching the disease. “I’m more afraid of returning to Honduras,” he says. Tapachula, in the southern Mexican state of Chiapas, is the first stop for most migrants who journey north through Central America. Historically this quiet, sweltering border city of 350,000, hemmed in by rainforests and mountain coffee plantations, was merely a waystation – a place people stayed for a day or two before continuing onward to the U.S. border. Now, due to increasingly severe immigration and refugee policies in both the U.S. and Mexico, migrants are getting stuck here. As Covid-19 spreads into Mexico, these most vulnerable of Tapachula residents could swiftly be facing a health emergency. Mexico recorded its first coronavirus death on March 18 and as of March 22, federal officials reported 316 confirmed and 794 suspected Covid-19 cases nationwide. But testing rates remain low, and the Mexican government's response to the global outbreak has been criticized as insufficient. While some cities and states have closed schools and limited public gatherings, no national-level travel restrictions are yet in place. “This is a virus that doesn’t discriminate,” says Sibylla Brodzinsky, a spokesperson for the United Nations’ refugee agency in Mexico, which partners with shelters in Tapachula to provide services to refugees and asylum seekers. “Anywhere where people are living in close quarters is a concern for us.” Last year, 70,600 people filed for asylum in Tapachula, up from 30,000 in 2018. While their claims are processed, they must remain in Chiapas – Mexico’s poorest state, which has among the lowest per capita health expenditure in the country. During this legal process, which can take two to six months, asylum-seekers live in overflowing shelters, cramped rented rooms, or on the street. Many are already in poor health when they arrive to Tapachula. “[Migrants] are people with scarce resources, exposed to long trips, exhausting days and extreme temperatures,” says Alberto Cabezas, national communications head for the Organization of International Migration in Mexico. “All of these factors undermine health.” Andrés Ramírez, who leads the Mexican Commission for Assistance to Refugees (COMAR), says he is working overtime to keep Tapachula safe for both his staff and the asylum-seekers they serve. Last week his office submitted a hastily prepared evaluation of COMAR’s daily interactions with migrants to national health officials to obtain guidance on how to keep processing asylum applications through the coronavirus pandemic. As of March 18, all migrants who enter COMAR facilities receive written and verbal information about preventing the spread of the disease. “Often this population doesn’t have, as many other people do, access to means of information where they can learn about necessary precautions related to coronavirus,” Ramírez says. Sandi Raymond, a Haitian who earns a meager living braiding hair in Tapachula’s main square, says she knows to wash her hands before she eats, but she had also heard from “people on the street” the incorrect advice that lemon juice would kill coronavirus. No one from the city has approached her with health information, Raymond says. Dr. Gabriel Ocampo González, director of health and hygiene in Tapachula, said the city is taking preventative measures. Interviewed in his office on March 11, the day the World Health Organization declared a global pandemic, Ocampo González said coronavirus had not yet arrived in Tapachula but that every migrant shelter, detention center and hospital had hand sanitizer at the entrance, had sufficient hand-washing facilities, and was attentive to symptoms. “It will get here, unfortunately,” Ocampo González said. Dr. Rosa Maria del Angel, an infectious disease expert at the Center for Research and Advanced Studies at Mexico’s National Polytechnic Institute, worries the country’s already strained public clinics and hospitals will struggle to cope with the global pandemic that’s now creeping into Mexico. “It is difficult for Mexico’s health system to take care of sick migrants, especially considering that it will also be receiving Mexican patients with respiratory disease,” she said via email. To discourage the spread of the virus, March 23 has been declared a “National Day of Healthy Distance” in Mexico to discourage the spread of the virus. For migrants in Tapachula, however, distance often proves unattainable. Pierre Tchiballe, an asylum-seeker who recently arrived from Haiti, cannot afford rent in the city, so he’s relying on friends for shelter. With refuges like Belén locking down against coronavirus, finding more permanent housing is harder than ever for Tapachula’s migrants. Tchiballe says the fear of catching coronavirus makes his already precarious situation even worse. “If one day I discover I have corona, I have no one here in Tapachula,” Tchiballe says. Reporting for this article was supported by the International Women’s Media Foundation as part of the Adelante Latin American Reporting Initiative. Photojournalist Encarni Pindado also contributed reporting.

LSC Communications Inc., one of the largest book and magazine printers in the U.S., is preparing to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy after failed efforts to restructure its nearly $1 billion of debt. The company, whose business also spans the phone and text book industries, is making the preparations after struggling to raise cash by selling non-core assets, said people with knowledge of the plans, who asked not to be named discussing private information.

Zillow Group Inc. is pausing its push into homebuying, putting a key piece of its strategic shift on hold as the coronavirus roils the U.S. economy. The company slowed its home-purchasing program earlier this month, and is now halting it entirely to preserve capital and protect employees, Chief Executive Officer Rich Barton said in a statement Monday.

We’ve seen some frightening headlines about how much the U.S. economy could shrink in the April through June quarter because of the Covid-19 pandemic. For example: “Coronavirus will send US GDP down a startling 13%: Deutsche Bank predicts.” That headline is easy to misinterpret. If you’re just tuning into economics journalism, you might assume that Deutsche Bank is predicting that U.S. economic output will be 13% smaller in the second quarter than it was in the first quarter. But that’s not what the bank is forecasting. As the body of the story explains, 13% is the predicted annual rate of decline—that is, how much the economy would shrink over a full year if it kept shrinking for four straight quarters as quickly as it’s expected to in the second quarter. Deutsche Bank doesn’t think the contraction will continue at that pace. In fact, it’s looking for a second-half rebound.  You can do a little math to figure out how much the economy would have to shrink from the first quarter to the second quarter to produce a 13% annual rate of decline. The answer is 3.4%. Still a lot, but not quite as shocking. Space is at a premium in headlines, so headline writers often (usually?) leave out “annual rate,” saving that information for the story. If you read a lot of economics news, you’re used to the convention. But many people who are focusing on economic news for the first time because of the pandemic-induced recession could be mystified. (Math detour here: Because of compounding, the quarterly change is not exactly a quarter of the annual change. The difference is easier to see with unrealistically big changes. An annual rate of decline of 80% in the second quarter—perish the thought—implies a one-quarter output decline of 33.1%. Conversely, an annual rate of increase of 80% in the second quarter implies a one-quarter output increase of 15.8%.) Actually, it’s not just the annual rate that Wall Street economists forecast, but the seasonally adjusted annual rate. This factors in predictable fluctuations, such as the increase in retail sales during the Christmas shopping season, to get at the underlying growth trend. And, of course, all predictions of gross domestic product strip out the effects of inflation. If you didn’t do that, you couldn’t tell whether reported growth was caused by an increase in the volume of production or an increase in prices. You wouldn’t need to adjust for seasonality or for the annual rate if you just reported how big you expect the economy to be in, say, the second quarter of 2020, vs. the second quarter of 2019. That’s how China, for one, officially reports its GDP. But that approach fuzzes up what’s happening now. For example, China is finishing up an awful first quarter, but output doesn’t look so weak when compared with a year earlier because there’d been decent growth until the Covid-19 outbreak. If this is too much to digest, just remember that when economists and headline writers talk about economic growth rates, they’re almost certainly citing a number that’s a bit imaginary: the growth that would occur if the quarterly rate of change continued for an entire year. Which it almost certainly won’t.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Airbus SE extended credit lines and clamped down on cash outlays to give it access to 30 billion euros ($32 billion), taking steps to protect liquidity after the coronavirus pandemic pushed its airline customers to halt flights and stop ordering planes.

Even the man who calls himself “MLPGuy” is now forecasting the end of funds dedicated to the unique corporate structure known as the master limited partnership. At one time, MLPs were a preferred strategy for oil and gas pipeline companies seeking to secure certain tax advantages. But those advantages were weakened by the federal government in 2018, causing many energy companies to abandon the structure. Now, the toxic combination of an oil price war and the Covid-19 pandemic is colliding with stress among the funds that hold MLPs, forcing them to join a selling spree that has caused pipeline partnerships to get hit even harder than other energy stocks.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Sweden is starting to look like a global outlier in its response to the coronavirus.

Nigeria, Africa’s top oil producer, announced a one-month lockdown to limit the spread of the coronavirus, banning all international flights and shutting land borders. Authorities are advising residents of the commercial hub, Lagos, and the capital, Abuja, to stay indoors and avoid any “non-essential outings,” government secretary Boss Mustapha said in a statement. Lagos is one of Africa’s biggest cities, with about 20 million people.

President Donald Trump said Monday he was delaying the Oct. 1, 2020, deadline for Americans to get a Real ID to travel, as part of an effort to limit people’s exposure to the coronavirus. “I’m also announcing that we’re postponing the deadline for compliance with Real ID requirements,” he said at a White House briefing. “At a time when we’re asking Americans to maintain social distancing, we do not want to require people to go with their local DMV. We will be announcing the new deadline very soon.”

Finance ministers and central bank governors from the Group of 20 nations joined an emergency call on Monday to discuss the fallout from the coronavirus pandemic on the global economy and work toward a joint response. “We need to consolidate our efforts to support the containment of the virus, the maintenance of medical systems and the development of drugs and vaccines,” Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso told reporters after the call. “Nations should carry out the ample economic fiscal measures needed.”























Donald Trump reassured conservatives in 2016 with a shortlist of 25 Supreme Court nominees he said he would choose from. Former Vice President Joe Biden’s list is much shorter.

Your favorite restaurants and bars may be closed, but online wine buying is booming—and already was before the Covid-19 coronavirus outbreak. A January report from Rabobank, a global food and agribusiness bank, estimated that U.S. online sales reached $2.6 billion in 2019, growing 22% year on year. At the recent annual Impact Marketing Seminar, Rich Bergsund, chief executive officer of giant online retailer Wine.com, said the site pulled in $150 million in revenue in 2019.

Deere & Co. is halting production in agricultural behemoth Brazil as the coronavirus outbreak erodes sales for the world’s biggest tractor maker. In a bid to protect employees and families, Deere said it will suspend two facilities in Brazil on Wednesday for an undetermined period while four other units will stop Monday.

France’s economy is in a record downturn as sweeping measures to contain the coronavirus pandemic shut down businesses and force consumers to stay home. IHS Markit’s monthly gauge of manufacturing and services activity plummeted to the lowest since the series began in 1998, it said on Tuesday.

Prices of debt tied to Neiman Marcus Group Inc. tumbled as the luxury retailer considers options that could include a bankruptcy filing to ease its $4.3 billion debt load. Neiman Marcus’s first lien term loan due 2023 dropped 8 to 10 cents on the dollar to about 38 cents, according to people familiar with the pricing. The company’s roughly $500 million of third-lien bonds due 2024, which were trading at 18 cents, are being quoted at less than 10 cents, the people said.

Six workers wearing hazmat suits, full face respirators, and two layers of gloves jumped out of a truck and prepared to enter a small office building at 9 p.m. one evening in mid-March. Bill Ciaccio, a 40-year-old operations manager for biohazard cleanup company Aftermath Services LLC, had gotten a call about a confirmed case of the novel coronavirus a few hours earlier. The business, hoping it wouldn’t have to cease operations for too long, needed its offices disinfected right away. Ciaccio first advised the client on how to prepare: Clear out all employees and wait a few hours to let any airborne particles settle. Then Aftermath’s crew arrived with a custom mix of disinfectants and red biohazard bags. “We set up zones,” Ciaccio says. “The control zone is the area being disinfected, the buffer zone is the entryway. Then there is the clean zone,” he says, where workers carefully peel off their gear and put the red bags into cardboard boxes. By 4:30 a.m. the squad had disinfected the entire space. Biohazard remediation work is exploding as the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in the U.S. reached almost 50,000 as of March 24, accounting for 615 deaths. Globally, the outbreak has expanded to more than 399,000 cases in 166 countries. The pandemic is keeping companies such as Aftermath busy 24/7; its caseload has grown to about 50 confirmed Covid-19 cleanups a day. The wave began earlier this month when businesses wanted preventive cleanings amid a shortage of tests to know if employees had the virus. Aftermath says the overall U.S. market for biohazard cleanup services, between $700 million and $800 million in 2019, is expected to more than double this year. “It’s crazy, I’ve never seen anything like it,” Aftermath Chief Executive Officer Doug Berto said in a March 13 interview. The current outbreak is far more extreme, he says, than the pandemic that inspired the company’s founding in the 1990s—the AIDS crisis. Fortune 50 companies have called on Aurora, Ill.-based Aftermath, covering a range of industries, from sports franchises to food service and restaurants. Municipal buildings, police departments, and other public service agencies are also among Aftermath’s clients, which Berto declined to name. Responding  to emergency cleanups requires skilled people—second responders who work closely with law enforcement—protective supplies, and extreme caution. Workers, Ciaccio says, are putting themselves “in harm’s way on a daily basis.” As demand is growing, so too is the company. Aftermath, which has around 275 employees in 50 locations and 100 mobile units, recently increased its staff by 15%. Another provider, New Jersey-based ACV Enviro, has also seen demand spike. “Originally it was transportation hubs, then next was a lot of the large utility companies,” says Donna Miller, vice president for health and safety, describing the rush of service requests. ACV has about 650 to 700 trained field staff, and Miller says that number could triple in the coming months. The cleanup costs can add up. Aftermath’s hourly rates range from $750 to $1,000 for a team of three to four people, or anywhere from $1 to $10 per square foot. With an estimated 71 billion square feet of commercial real estate in the U.S., the price of disinfecting businesses could eat up almost all of the $850 billion in financial assistance for businesses, cities and states now being weighed by the Senate, part of a $2 trillion coronavirus stimulus plan. That’s if institutions clean only once. The rapidly spreading disease suggests some businesses will require more than one cleanup. Businesses that close down could forgo such services and expense. The figure doesn’t include waste disposal costs. Those services, which are typically outsourced, add 20% to 35% to the total cost of any cleanup, Berto estimated. But there are ways to mitigate the burden. Ciaccio says that with large sites, internal video footage can be used to track where coronavirus-infected employees have been and to target specific areas for cleaning. That can “save work when you have a million square feet.” The cleanup team also interviews people to try to narrow down hot zones.  One challenge for companies like Aftermath and ACV is how best to dispose of the waste from cleanup sites. Treating it like regular trash would save costs but raises big safety issues.  The company is looking for clarity on the issue, to be decided between the Centers for Disease Control and OSHA. The agencies did not have immediate responses when contacted for comment about their guidelines. Stericycle Inc., an Illinois-based company that disposes of medical waste, says it hasn’t seen an increase in Covid-19 waste yet, partly because hospitals have put elective surgeries on hold. That’s also partly due to the nature of the disease: “This isn’t the type of virus that’s creating waste from patients themselves,” says Selin Hoboy, Stericycle’s vice president for legislative and regulatory affairs. “There’s not a lot of blood or bodily fluids being generated like we saw with Ebola. It’s mostly personal protective equipment.” Coronavirus waste goes through the company’s autoclaves, or steam-cleaning sites, and most of it is later buried in landfills. Only some waste containers are sturdy enough to be recycled. “The way this thing is spreading is truly like wildfire, and we need to take every action to prevent the spread from happening,” says Vikas Chopra, marketing director at Aftermath. “We want to do our part to flatten the curve.”

The Federal Reserve’s kitchen-sink approach to bond purchases seems to be restoring order to a world where recently only the most liquid Treasuries were in demand. Price discrepancies in the Treasury market are lessening after $225 billion in purchases over the past three sessions and a new pledge for unlimited bond buying on Monday. The spread between more liquid current bonds, known as “on-the-runs” and older so-called off-the-run securities has tightened as more orderly trading returns.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. A Swiss luxury hotelier started a “Covid-19 Service” offering wealthy clients high-end quarantine apartments with meal delivery and medical services, including virus tests. Quarantine apartments in Zurich, Zug and Lucerne are available for about 200 Swiss francs to 800 Swiss francs ($822) a day, Alexander Hübner, the co-founder and chief executive officer of Le Bijou Hotel & Resort Management AG, said in an interview. Hübner said Le Bijou has also partnered with a private Swiss health-care service to offer guests twice daily nurse visits for an additional 800 francs a day or even an in-room virus test for 500 francs. The business hasn’t provided any tests yet, he said. Since launching last week, the company has recorded five bookings for the new Covid-19 service. Le Bijou has 42 units altogether, and about half are occupied by guests at the moment, he said. All units are able to operate without staff, including for check in, so clients have the option to remain fully isolated. “They don’t need to shake hands with anyone,” Hübner said. Like most service industries, hotels have been devastated by government-ordered shutdowns of restaurants, tourist activities and large gatherings. Hübner said he started the Covid-19 service as a way to continue generating income during the crisis.

Mastercard Inc. ditched its full-year outlook for revenue growth and lowered forecasts for first-quarter results it announced just a month ago. First-quarter net revenue will probably climb by a percentage in the “low single digits,” the Purchase, New York-based firm said Tuesday in a statement. Operating expenses could increase by a percentage in the “low-to-mid-single digits” range.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Egypt imposed a countrywide nighttime curfew for two weeks, the broadest measure yet taken to contain the spread of the coronavirus in the Arab world’s most populous nation.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The euro zone is sinking into the biggest economic crisis in its history as measures to contain the coronavirus pandemic bring much of the business world to a standstill.

The coronavirus health scare has imposed sudden and drastic changes to how we live day to day, first in Asia and now increasingly in Europe, the U.S. and other regions. What’s it been like in Italy these last several weeks? I had the chance on March 20 to ask Bocconi University Professor Carlo Altomonte questions in a live Q&A blog about how he has experienced living, working, shopping and socializing. He is associate professor of economics of European integration at Bocconi and director of the globalization and industry dynamics unit within the Baffi Carefin research center. Altomonte is from the south of Italy and he lives in Milan with his wife.

Intel Corp. said it’s suspending stock repurchases due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. The chipmaker said the suspension, “while conservative, is prudent given uncertainty regarding the length and severity of the pandemic.”

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Harvard University President Lawrence Bacow and his wife have tested positive for coronavirus, the school said Tuesday.

The European Union’s carbon market will test how much airlines still need allowances to cover greenhouse gas pollution. With many flights grounded and carbon prices on the slide, auctions scheduled for new permits in the Emissions Trading System are about double the normal size. That raises the risk that one of the auctions will fail, which would be an indication that demand for the securities is weakening.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. U.K. businesses are being dragged into the biggest slump in modern memory by the shutdown to contain the coronavirus.

Since the 1970s, the United States has relied on one primary strategy to deal with poverty, pollution, and various other social problems and challenges: quarantine. We have carved up cities and communities with spatial barricades, built fortified enclaves for the affluent, and pursued solutions that relied on segregating the haves from the problems of the have-nots. Now comes the coronavirus, a crisis that refuses to be contained by the barriers we’ve built. (Indeed, because of its connection to international airline travel, it alighted in the booming global cities first.) In a nation that has learned to solve problems by trying to isolate them in space, how can we come together to defeat this virus? To find an answer, we have to look back and understand how we got to this point. In the early 1960s, the dominant approaches to solving the challenges of the moment were grand, public, collective. Presidents Kennedy and Johnson put forth a vision of what the United States could become. In 1964, Johnson told graduates of the University of Michigan, “in your time we have the opportunity to move not only toward the rich society and the powerful society, but upward to the Great Society.” But just a few years later, this vision had faded. A horrific war in Vietnam raged on. Pollution was turning skies hazy and making rivers toxic. Violent crime rose sharply in major cities, and riots tore through hundreds of cities from 1965 to 1968. Steady jobs disappeared, the gap between the rich and the poor widened, and poverty and desperation became more visible on city streets. We had two choices, as a nation. One option was to pursue the vision Johnson had presented that day in Ann Arbor, and the kind of wide-reaching proposals put forth in documents like the Kerner Commission Report of 1968: We could make enormous investments to reduce inequality and build thriving cities, and come together to solve the challenges of urban decay, concentrated poverty, economic dislocation, segregation, pollution, violence, and racial injustice. Instead, the United States made a different choice. Americans—particularly white Americans, economic elites and their political representatives—no longer considered making massive investments to confront the problems of the cities. Instead of taking bold steps to reckon with entrenched racial inequality, they asked how to maintain racial separation in increasingly diverse urban areas. Sidestepping the problems of joblessness and deep poverty, they sought ways to preserve economic advantage in a time of rising inequality and state retrenchment. During the Great Depression and World War II, the challenges of the moment were met with bold, national plans of action. But from the 1970s onward, America’s major crises and challenges have largely been met with a response driven by the goals of avoidance and separation. Instead of collective movements and public investment, we have tried to carve up space and quarantine social problems, to allow the most advantaged segments of the population to isolate themselves from those problems, and to restrict who can access areas of opportunity. To deal with the most pressing challenges we face, we have created an elaborate system of barricades in space. Our spatial barricades have come in many different forms over the years. In the early 20th century, Jim Crow laws, racial zoning ordinances, and redlined (and yellow-lined) neighborhoods were used to create rigid boundaries in space that maintained racial separation; in the postwar era, interstate highways and urban renewal projects accomplished the same feat. Today’s forms have shifted. We have converted an age-old barricade, the prison cell, and made it a core institution in our society, locking up millions of Americans, disproportionately young men of color, behind the bars of state and federal prison cells. And we continue to find new ways to divide up and fortify our communities. In cities like Atlanta , for example, groups of neighbors near the city’s border have created their own governments, forming an administrative barrier between them and the city next door. In new municipalities like Sandy Springs, Georgia, affluent residents no longer needed to share their tax dollars with the rest of the city. Nearby, new cities are still forming and residents are still voting to reject the expansion of rail lines in an effort to maintain separation between the city and the surrounding areas. Other barriers are more literal: Hidden Hills, California, a small bloc of land just west of Los Angeles that was incorporated as an independent city back in 1961, now sits behind gates that protect its wealthy residents. When fires raged outside Los Angeles in November 2018, two famous homeowners, Kanye West and Kim Kardashian, decided not to rely on public resources and instead called on private firefighters to protect their property and their neighborhood behind the gates. That’s an extreme example of a nationwide phenomenon. Every inch of American soil is demarcated with political, administrative, and physical barricades erected to hoard resources, to quarantine social problems, to restrict access to advantaged spaces, and to preserve and reproduce social inequalities. As trust in the federal government has fallen rapidly over time, we have become a nation that has been taught to respond to great challenges by avoiding them, rather than bringing people together and working toward a solution. This approach has meant that the most pressing challenges facing us have gone unaddressed, the burdens of our national problems have been shifted toward the most disadvantaged, and inequality has continued to grow. Can the crisis we now face be any different? Why would we come together to solve this challenge of a new pandemic virus, when we’ve been conditioned to avoid the major problems that have arisen over the past half century? The map of confirmed cases reveals a sobering answer: A spatial solution to Covid-19 is not possible. The virus is everywhere, or will be soon, directly affecting the lives of every American. The disease has demolished spatial barricades and party lines; it may force us to come together. We have seen signs of this reluctant and fitful cooperation already, as the initial relief legislation put forth in the House generated more expressions of bipartisan goodwill than any piece of legislation in recent memory. (The Senate, so far, is a different story.). The good news is that we have evidence from national efforts to deal with crises like the threat of terror and the financial meltdown of 2008 to suggest that it’s still possible for the United States to come together and respond to national challenges, even if those responses are slow, imperfect or incomplete. But we can only do so when the problem transcends the barricades we’ve erected for decades to reinforce American inequality. This, clearly, is that kind of problem. If we can muster the collective investment needed to fight back against Covid-19, perhaps it will provide a reminder of a basic fact about our species: Our fates are intimately connected. Once coronavirus stops spreading, we will face a global recession, extreme inequality, and the ongoing existential threat of climate change. We have become a nation that responds to these kinds of challenges by giving people the chance to separate themselves from the problem. This virus should show us there’s an alternative way to solve the challenges that face us, collectively.

Anthony Fauci, the infectious disease expert who is the most credible U.S. spokesperson on the coronavirus outbreak, returned to the White House podium on Tuesday following a two-day absence after contradicting President Donald Trump. Fauci said it is important to obtain more data about the virus through testing to determine the next steps in the federal government’s response efforts.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The Netherlands reported the highest number of overnight fatalities from the coronavirus pandemic since the outbreak first came to the densely populated European country.

Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. furloughed 80% of its 10,000-strong workforce and said it will only keep flying for essential services as restrictions due to the coronavirus eviscerate demand for travel. Shares rose. Domestic capacity will be cut by 90% as 125 aircraft are grounded, with flights retained only for essential services, critical freight and logistics, the airline said in a statement Wednesday. Its Tiger Australia budget division will be suspended immediately. The group had already announced its intention to suspend all international flights from March 30 to June 14.

Suzuki Motor Corp. effectively shut down operations in India, one of its most important markets. The company’s Gujarat car plant will be halted through March 25, and any reopening will take into consideration directives from the local government, Satoshi Kasukawa, a spokesman for the Japanese manufacturer, said by telephone. It also suspended a vehicle and motorcycle facility in Haryana.

President Donald Trump said Monday that first lady Melania Trump had tested negative for the coronavirus. The president was asked if she was tested since both he and Vice President Mike Pence tested negative. Trump has said he only asked to be tested because of repeated media inquiries.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Climate activist Greta Thunberg says she has recovered after being infected with the coronavirus on a trip to central Europe.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Namibia joined other African countries in closing airports and imposing a partial lockdown on the capital, Windhoek, to try and prevent the spread of the deadly coronavirus.

Australia’s government and policy makers are rushing to shore up the nation’s economy and financial system as the severity of the coronavirus outbreak mounts. With announcements piling up by the day, here is a guide to the measures announced so far:

For a fresh perspective on the stories that matter for Australian business and politics, sign up for our new weekly newsletter. Australia extended its shutdown of non-essential services to slow the spread of the coronavirus, banning travel overseas, closing a string of businesses and restricting weddings and funerals after the number of cases surged past 2,000.

The 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games are now officially delayed by as much as a year, leaving hundreds of companies around the world to recalibrate their plans for the world’s biggest marketing event. It won’t be easy. Businesses pay billions of dollars to get their brands and products in front of 7.8 million ticket holders at venues, as well as 4 billion-plus television and online viewers. Now, their promotional plans are facing disarray. With the virus slashing into sales and profits, there’s also a very real risk that some companies may pull out altogether -- or no longer be operating.

As the coronavirus swept across the U.S. in the past two weeks, small businesses turned away customers, and hospitals braced for a surge of patients. Doctors’ offices have been doing both. Physicians have deferred nonessential care or seen wary patients cancel en masse. Some have staff quarantined because of potential exposure, while others are rushing to switch as many appointments as possible to virtual visits. The result is a painful squeeze for a crucial front line of the American health-care system.

The Bank of England is activating an emergency liquidity facility after banks’ demand for cash soared at its regular operation on Tuesday. The central bank said it will run a Contingent Term Repo Facility on March 26 and April 2 in its latest effort to combat financial stress prompted by the coronavirus pandemic. The CTRF will lend reserves for a period of three months, and will compliment existing facilities, as part of the BOE’s efforts to help “support financial stability by reducing the cost of disruption to critical financial services.”

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government is evaluating a stimulus program to help revive the German economy after the coronavirus crisis subsides.

One of the last big blockbuster films set to debut in spring, Warner Bros.’ “Wonder Woman 1984,” has been delayed until August as the coronavirus pandemic keeps theaters closed. The superhero movie was scheduled to premiere on June 5 in North America and will now debut Aug. 14, the AT&T Inc. unit said. Warner Bros. also delayed the premieres of the Lin-Manuel Miranda musical “In the Heights” and Scooby-Doo film “Scoob!” indefinitely as studio executives try to assess when movie fans will be allowed back into cinemas.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said she’s optimistic Congress will soon reach a deal on a massive stimulus measure to fight economic fallout from the coronavirus outbreak, after the Trump administration agreed to independent oversight of a fund to support companies.

Want the lowdown on European markets? In your inbox before the open, every day. Sign up here. European equities posted their biggest one-day gain since late 2008 as investors turned more optimistic about stimulus measures to combat the economic fallout from the coronavirus.

Want to receive this post in your inbox every day? Sign up for the Balance of Power newsletter, and follow Bloomberg Politics on Twitter and Facebook for more. World leaders are cranking into action. Each day brings a new (virtual) meeting. European leaders will chat Thursday over videoconference, the same day as the Group of 20.

Germany’s economy is heading for a steep recession as attempts to slow the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic sent the services sector into an unprecedented slump. IHS Markit’s gauge of manufacturing and services activity plunged in March. It signals that GDP in the euro area’s biggest economy could drop by around 2% in the first quarter -- with worse to come.

Yum! Brands Inc. said it’s suspending its share repurchase program and working to assist some franchisees as the coronavirus outbreak erodes sales.

The Federal Reserve tapped BlackRock Inc. to shepherd several debt-buying programs on behalf of the U.S. central bank as it works to revive an economy reeling from the spread of coronavirus. BlackRock, the world’s largest asset manager, will serve as an investment adviser and manage assets for three separate programs, the New York Fed said Tuesday. Those include two new facilities the central bank announced Monday to provide liquidity to corporate borrowers, as well as purchases of agency commercial mortgage-backed securities.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Group of Seven finance chiefs urged oil-producing nations to support international efforts to stabilize world markets rocked by the coronavirus crisis.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Elon Musk, the chief executive officer of Tesla Inc. and an outspoken skeptic of the severity of the coronavirus outbreak, donated more than 1,000 ventilators to officials in Los Angeles to meet demand as the pandemic becomes more severe.

President Donald Trump spoke to several billionaire hedge fund and private equity managers Tuesday morning about reopening the U.S. economy, which has been ground to a halt by the coronavirus outbreak, people familiar with the matter said.Trump is re-evaluating whether to call for people to return to work as the economic damage from the shutdown has mounted. He discussed the path forward by phone with money managers including Citadel’s Kenneth Griffin, Paul Tudor Jones of Tudor Investment, John Paulson and Blackstone Group Inc.’s Stephen Schwarzman, one of the people said. A representative for Jones declined to comment and spokespeople for the other firms didn’t immediately respond to request for comment.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. On the same day Italy finally saw a dip in the number of deaths from the coronavirus, the U.K. was forced into a full lockdown with Europe still scrambling for new ways to mitigate the devastating social and economic impact of the pandemic.

Vale, the world’s largest iron ore producer, joined Petrobras in tapping credit lines to cope with the added risks of the coronavirus outbreak, while airlines reduced flights to a fraction of regular operations. The latest data from the Health Ministry shows cases rose to 2,201, with 46 deaths.

Want the lowdown on European markets? In your inbox before the open, every day. Sign up here. Norway’s krone had its best day against the dollar on record, after a pledge to intervene in currency markets by the central bank seemed to deter some market participants.

After a weekend barrage of social media posts documenting sanitizer shortages and soap aisle raids across America’s supermarkets, Melissa Hanesworth and Tara Engel felt they had to act. The two women also knew they were in a position to do something: They had jobs in manufacturing and public affairs at the New York-based North American division of Pernod Ricard SA, the $35 billion French spirits empire behind Absolut vodka and Jameson Irish whiskey. On March 16 they came up with a proposal to retool the corporation’s distilleries for something the country was in dire need of—industrial quantities of hand gel, a cleanser broadly sold out across the country since the outbreak of Covid-19, the disease caused by the  novel coronavirus. They took their idea to Pernod Ricard’s regional head, Ann Mukherjee, who immediately signed off and began supervising a bat-out-of-hell turnaround. Within 48 hours, Hanesworth and Engel had placed a bulk order of chemicals and worked with the White House coronavirus task force to obtain clearance from regulators to begin manufacture. By March 20, Pernod Ricard’s facility in Fort Smith, Ark., where it makes Malibu coconut rum and Seagram’s gin, had produced 1,000 gallons of hand sanitizer. By the next day, President Trump was lauding the company at a news conference as a shining example of corporations stepping up to the challenge of fighting the global pandemic. “These two women were the two absolute drivers of what made this thing happen here,” Mukherjee says of Pernod Ricard’s public health project. “I say to everyone on my team that a time of crisis is not what builds your character, it’s what reveals it. To see everyone step up the way they are—my breath has been taken away.” The distiller’s effort comes as businesses the world over rethink their day-to-day operations so they can help governments fight the coronavirus, which has killed more than 15,000 people globally out of more than 355,000 confirmed infections. Major corporations are heeding the call to address civic need at the fastest pace since World War II, when carmakers such as Chrysler, Ford, and General Motors began producing airplanes and aircraft parts, along with trucks, tanks, marine diesels, guns, and shells. While industry champions were idolized during that period, Big Business nowadays is viewed with suspicion. Yet the speed of its actions amid the global virus crisis could ultimately prove one of the most important factors in fighting the pandemic and help recast its public image. In the U.S., 3M Co. is doubling its production of N95 respirator masks to an annual rate of 2 billion and Tesla Inc. founder Elon Musk is holding conversations with Medtronic Inc. about “ state-of-the-art ventilators.” H&M, the mass-market clothier, is adapting its production lines to supply more surgical garments. In the U.K., Smiths Group Plc has ramped up the manufacture of its own medical ventilators, which are in short supply, and has made the intellectual property to produce them available to other companies; the government has asked engine maker Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc and McLaren Automotive to help build them. In China, the country that first reported the outbreak, Foxconn Technology Group, a supplier of iPhone components to Apple Inc., has refitted production lines to manufacture surgical masks. Luxury goods conglomerate LVMH is distributing 40 million of those to French workers and producing hand sanitizer at its Dior and Givenchy perfume plants. The German government has asked the country’s automakers to manufacture medical equipment, people familiar with the matter have said, and a spokesman for Volkswagen AG said the company has forged an international task force to explore other options. On March 21, Google launched a website dedicated to information about Covid-19 a week after Trump touted the company’s help in the fight against the pandemic. Pernod Ricard’s production of hand gel comes as a wave of beverage-alcohol companies moonlight to fill cleansing-alcohol needs. An increasing number of distilleries, from small-batch whiskey upstarts across mainland U.S. to rum giant Bacardi in Puerto Rico, are racing to supply a product that’s long been the preserve of Dettol, made by Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc in the U.K., and Purell, which is a product of Gojo Industries of Akron, Ohio. Brewers such as Budweiser maker Anheuser-Busch InBev NV have also started producing sanitizer, and Scotland’s BrewDog has unveiled slickly branded BrewGel, which will be donated to the Aberdeen Royal Infirmary intensive care unit. The American Craft Spirits Association said 3 in 4 of its distillery members are now producing alcohol for use as disinfectant. On March 16, Pernod Ricard’s head of communications, Olivier Cavil, walked into his local drugstore in Champagne, the French region that produces the sparkling wine of the same name, and—not knowing whom to ask—told a pharmacist he wanted to provide 70,000 liters of raw alcohol to manufacture hand sanitizer. She connected Cavil to Laboratoire Cooper, which supplies three-quarters of the cleansing gel to French pharmacies. It accepted the donation. By April, Laboratoire Cooper expects to be manufacturing 1.8 million bottles of 5 centiliter doses. In the U.S., Pernod Ricard expects to produce about 4,000 gallons of hand sanitizer at its Fort Smith facility according to a recipe of denatured raw alcohol, glycerin, and hydrogen peroxide provided by the World Health Organization. The gel will also be made at the company’s bourbon and rye distilleries in Kentucky, Texas, and West Virginia. All of it will be donated to the White House task force to be redistributed to hospitals and wherever else it’s most needed. “We worked very directly with the top of the house at lightning speed,” Mukherjee says. “This is a great example of government bodies and private companies coming together and really doing what’s right at a time of crisis.” Read more:  Disinfectant Manufacturers Scramble to Meet Explosive Demand

China’s government is facing the worst fiscal situation since the global financial crisis more than a decade ago, with revenue falling after the government shut down economic activity in February to curb the spread of the coronavirus. The income of central and local governments contracted 9.9% in the first two months of the year compared to a year ago. That was the deepest fall since February 2009.

The now-delayed Tokyo 2020 Olympics was supposed to showcase Japan’s recovery after the devastating 2011 earthquake and its economic revival after two-plus decades of anemic growth. Now, even if the pandemic subsides and the Games proceed next year without a hitch, the event will be tinged with the aftermath of the coronavirus outbreak and an economic recession that laid bare the fragility of Japan’s recent growth.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. It’s not just grocery shoppers who are hoarding pantry staples. Some governments are moving to secure domestic food supplies during the conoravirus pandemic.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Some of the U.K.’s biggest homebuilders are closing construction sites after the government banned all unnecessary movement of people to slow the spread of the deadly coronavirus.

A federal judge brutally shot down a request by Michael Cohen, President Donald Trump’s former personal lawyer and fixer, to be let out early from a three-year prison sentence due in part to his fears of contracting the coronavirus. Cohen’s “raising the specter” of the virus in a court filing last week was just “another attempt to inject himself into the news cycle,” U.S. District Judge William Pauley ruled Tuesday in New York.

New York (AP) -- Terrence McNally, one of America’s great playwrights whose prolific career included winning Tony Awards for the plays "Love! Valour! Compassion!" and "Master Class" and the musicals "Ragtime" and "Kiss of the Spider Woman," has died of complications from the coronavirus. He was 81. McNally died Tuesday at Sarasota Memorial Hospital in Sarasota, Florida, according to representative Matt Polk. McNally was a lung cancer survivor who lived with chronic inflammatory lung disease.

Joe Biden has a substantial lead over President Donald Trump in 300 of the crucial so-called swing counties that could determine the November election, a new poll released Tuesday showed. The poll was taken last week as Americans were just beginning to grapple with staying at home and employment and economic worries because of the coronavirus. Trump was holding daily televised briefings on the coronavirus, while Biden was largely out of the limelight. Both Biden and Trump have put the issue of leadership front and center in the campaign.

Amazon.com Inc. is asking a federal court to require the Pentagon to broaden the scope of a reevaluation of its decision to award Microsoft Corp. a controversial $10 billion cloud-computing contract. In a filing to the U.S Court of Federal Claims made public on Tuesday, Amazon said the Pentagon should revisit the procurement “with respect to all of the errors identified by the protest” filed by the company.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Florida Governor Ron DeSantis said he’s expanding efforts to contain virus spread among travelers from the New York City area, requiring everyone who has flown from that region in the past three weeks to self-isolate.

Canadian stocks soared the most in at least 43 years, joining a global rally on hopes government stimulus will soon flow to economies hammered by the coronavirus. The S&P/TSX Composite Index rose 12% on Tuesday, the biggest one-day percentage jump since at least 1977 when the index’s predecessor began. South of the border, stocks boomed with the Dow Jones Industrial average posting its best day since 1933 as a U.S. stimulus bill of about $2 trillion inches forward.

President Donald Trump’s desire to get the U.S. economy up and running soon runs the risk of backfiring and making things even worse. With an increasing number of state and local governments ordering business shutdowns, a call by the president for a return to normal could lead to confusion and undermine the efforts of those municipalities to contain the coronavirus contagion.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Italy’s government may impose fines of up to 3,000 euros for violations of a nationwide lockdown as the country struggles to counter Europe’s worst coronavirus outbreak.

Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter South African businesses prepared to shut down operations and supermarkets were inundated by shoppers as the country braced for a three-week lockdown aimed at curbing the spread of the coronavirus.

From Miami’s famed Eden Roc Hotel to a plastics-molding company in Indiana, businesses are cutting employees by the hundreds due to slowdowns from the coronavirus. Before closing plants or making major layoffs, they’re required to file advance notice under the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification (WARN) Act. Below is a snapshot of selected filings showing the range and depth of cuts related to Covid-19.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. India deferred deadlines for filing tax returns, extended a tax amnesty program and unveiled other procedural relief steps, while promising more measures to support the economy amid the coronavirus pandemic.

If we’re going to recover from the coronavirus pandemic, then let’s do it in a way that shakes up the status quo. This is the message that a group of U.S. economists, professors, and veterans of the last financial crisis sent in a letter to Congress yesterday asking for “green stimulus” legislation to jump-start the economy in a way that controls for climate change and poverty.    They are asking for a $2 trillion commitment for programs that will create living-wage jobs, amped-up public health and housing sectors, and a pivot away from a fossil-fuels-based energy frame. Under their plan, the stimulus would automatically renew every year at 4 percent of GDP, or $850 billion annually, as well as give the public more of a voice in whether — and how — large-scale corporations would get bailouts. For now, the coalition recognizes that the focus should be on stopping the spread of coronavirus and mitigating all related health risks. “However, we can do all the preparatory work now to make green projects are ‘shovel ready,’” the group said in its open letter published on Medium.com. Legislative action and planning work now “can ensure that physical projects can commence as soon as it is feasible to restart major in-person work across the economy.” Congress is already deep in the throes of constructing a large economic recovery bill, to help workers losing income and businesses and governments losing revenue due to the novel coronavirus crisis. But the U.S. Senate is stuck in a debate between Republicans who want to dedicate a quarter of its $1.8 trillion stimulus plan to bailing out corporations, and Democrats who want to ensure strict transparency and oversight over how that $500 billion corporate bailout would be registered. Congressional Democrats are also making their own demands, like making airlines that receive federal funding assistance agree to reduce carbon emissions by 50 percent, and making corporations pay a $15 minimum wage to its workers. The Green Stimulus asks Congress to push for even more to guarantee that workers are protected and businesses can operate sustainably to ward off climate change catastrophes, especially in a coronavirus-crippled economy. The authors of the proposal are focused more on the long-term recovery — similar to the 2009 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act stimulus passed by the Obama administration that followed the 2008 Emergency Economic Stabilization Act bailout of the Bush administration.   In fact, many of the authors of the Green Stimulus letter either worked on the 2009 ARRA legislation or are now working on Green New Deal legislative proposals, and in some cases both. And yes, much of the Green Stimulus package mirrors the Green New Deal. The Green Stimulus architects are operating under guidelines set by a coalition of climate and environmental justice organizations called the “Five Principles for Just Covid-19 Relief and Stimulus:” prioritize public health; provide direct economic relief to families; relieve workers rather than corporate executives; protect elections and democratic processes; and, make a “down payment on a regenerative economy.” The last principle is what the Green Stimulus seeks to represent. “As policymakers take steps to ensure immediate relief and long-term recovery, it is imperative that they consider the interrelated crises of wealth inequality, racism, and ecological decline, which were in place long before Covid-19, and now risk being intensified,” according to the principles. CityLab spoke with J. Mijin Cha, an author of the Green Stimulus, senior fellow at Data for Progress, and assistant professor of urban and environmental policy at Occidental College. Much of her scholarship has been on the transition to a low-carbon economy, and how to fairly prepare fossil fuel workers and the unemployed for jobs in renewable energy. The interview has been edited for length and clarity. Why is a focus on a just transition for workers — from fossil fuel industries to renewable energy industries — an important thing to talk about in the middle of a coronavirus pandemic? There is an overlap between communities that are struggling with coronavirus that don’t have the resources to adequately fight it, and these rural regions that are fossil fuel communities. As we think about the stimulus, this is definitely an area of workers that should be covered. Because we can’t end fossil fuel extraction tomorrow. It will take us 10 years or so to be able to really plan for economic diversification and implement it so that these communities don’t go from having a tax base that is tied to coal mining to nothing. So, if we’re going to infuse, support and invest in projects that will put people to work, working towards transitioning fossil fuel communities away from extraction is something that we have to do now anyway. From a health perspective, is there something about renewable energy jobs that make workers safer in times like this, meaning disease outbreaks, than jobs in the fossil fuel industry?  The health impacts from these extractive industries would make people more susceptible to something like the coronavirus, because they’re already not in good health. The second thing is, I’ve seen reports of, coal miners for instance, and oil and gas drillers, whose jobs are considered to be essential. They’re not able to stay at home. So, they’re still constantly being exposed to the virus. They are bearing the brunt of our extractive economy, and then in times like now when there’s a pandemic, they are still right at the forefront. Part of the Green Stimulus asks for ramped-up resources and financing for electric vehicle manufacturing. Are there any caveats for that? For example, should Elon Musk expect a huge payout? Absolutely not. And we’ve put in points about prioritizing companies and projects that already have project labor agreements — at the minimum, they have to pay prevailing wage. This is something that’s really important as we think about job creation. Creating a bunch of bad jobs will just perpetuate both inequality and the climate crisis. Now is a time when we think about not just what we invest in but who we invest in. Businesses and manufacturers that pay and treat their workers with dignity are the ones that we want to be lifting up and investing in. There are also several provisions that focus on investing in women in the recovery. Why is that important? You can see that in terms of the occupations that are being hit, like health care and education, a lot of these are workforces that are majority women. We can say that women will bear the brunt of the negative economic consequences of the coronavirus. This emphasis on women is a way to acknowledge that historically women have been left out of things like manufacturing and tech. We’re focusing specifically on low-income communities, communities of color, indigenous communities, and other frontline communities that have been historically excluded from both the extractive economy and the current neoliberal economy that we have now. Many of the people working on the Green Stimulus proposal also worked on ARRA. What lessons are being taken into account?  First, ARRA was too small to address the magnitude of the crisis, which is why we’re calling for at least $2 trillion. I think ARRA showed how antiquated a lot of the programmatic infrastructure is. For instance, they tried to ramp up the weatherization program, but it could not handle that infusion of cash, just in terms of their basic infrastructure. That’s why a lot of our policies are really on the public sector, where we can stretch and advance a lot of these things, like renewable energy projects at utility scale, mass retrofitting of public housing. These are all things that we can do. Another issue with ARRA is that it focused on training workers for green new jobs, but didn’t focus as much on the demand side. So for us, what are the policies that we’re implementing that will not only create jobs, but also create demand for jobs? Like when we think about public procurement, that’s a lever that we can use to really ramp up manufacturing on the demand side, and that creates jobs. Critics are already arguing that ideas like the Green Stimulus or even the House Democrats’ recovery bill are just exploiting coronavirus to get Green New Deal policies passed. How do you respond to that? I understand where people are coming from, but I think what we need to realize is that what we’re having now is a total corporate stimulus. Are they also saying that Republicans are using this opportunity to really ramp up the corporate sector? I know people will ask: How do we make this politically feasible? But I think the focus should be more on what is the right thing to do. One thing that has come out from the coronavirus pandemic is how unjust our country really is. Like all the people that don’t have access to paid sick days, that don’t have access to health care, and understanding how deep our inequality really runs. This is something that has come to the surface, and this is an opportunity for us to address that.

“We won’t slash jobs, but we can’t pay you either.” That’s what the founders at a 200-person startup that created one of China’s most popular running apps told some of their employees in March. The statement sums up the predicament now faced by businesses across much of China, where the government is asking companies not to fire workers and offering incentives to keep them on the books. In February revenue at the Guangzhou-based company dropped to less than 10% of its usual monthly level as government-mandated measures to contain the  spread of the novel coronavirus confined runners to their homes. The founders, who asked that neither they nor the company be identified because of the sensitivity of talking about job losses, say they can no longer afford to pay all their workers yet are loath to dismiss them. A sudden spike in unemployment that might fill the streets with disgruntled workers has been a recurrent fear for the Communist Party of China, which has outlasted its Russian counterpart by almost 30 years, in part by consistently hitting its economic growth targets. In the late 1990s, when Premier Zhu Rongji carried out a sweeping reform of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) that resulted in an estimated 2 million job cuts, sacked workers staged protests around the country. Now authorities are concerned that layoffs could further stoke popular discontent, which began bubbling up on Chinese social media platforms since evidence surfaced that government officials had  suppressed early reports about the risks posed by the virus and manipulated infection statistics. A widely scrutinized measure of urban unemployment jumped to 6.2% in February, the highest since the gauge was introduced in 2018. With a record 9 million university graduates entering the workforce in 2020, the rate could rise to as high as 10% this year, says Iris Pang, chief Greater China economist at ING Bank NV in Hong Kong.  Data: National Bureau of Statistics of China  Alarm bells are ringing in Beijing. “All relevant government departments should give top priority to stabilizing employment,” said Premier Li Keqiang at a March 10 meeting of the State Council, China’s top executive body. “As long as employment is stable this year, it is no big deal for the economy to grow a little bit faster or a little bit slower.” During previous economic shocks including the Asian financial crisis in the late 1990s and the 2008 global financial crisis, China was able to contain the rise in joblessness by ramping up investment in public works, directing banks to increase lending, and ordering state-owned enterprises to refrain from layoffs. The country also managed to weather the trade war with the U.S. last year without a marked increase in unemployment. This time the outlook may be much worse.  Lockdowns of cities, travel bans, and other measures enacted to contain the outbreak shut down a large swath of the economy for two months. Priority No. 1 now is getting businesses back on their feet. The government has  cut interest rates, allowed a more lenient stance on  bad loans, and  sped up the approval process for companies to restart operations. Even so, many of the nation’s private businesses say they’ve been unable to access the funding they need to meet upcoming payroll and debt payment deadlines. In a February survey of mostly small and medium-size enterprises by China Merchants Bank Co., two-thirds of the more than 20,000 respondents said they would be unable to stay in business for more than three months given their current cash reserves. Exporters, meanwhile, are seeing a plunge in orders from clients in North America, Europe, and the rest of Asia, as foreign governments step up their own public-health efforts. Under such circumstances, most companies would quickly move to dismiss workers. Yet in places such as Heilongjiang province in the northeast, SOEs have been instructed to limit layoffs. A number of Chinese provinces are offering refunds on social security payments as an inducement not to downsize, and additional incentives may be rolled out in the months ahead. Despite decades-long efforts to overhaul unprofitable SOEs, China’s leadership continues to rely on them as shock absorbers during times of economic strain. Workers there might have to tolerate shorter shifts, reduced pay, or unpaid leave, but they’ll keep their jobs. Yet the ranks of SOEs have thinned considerably over the years, meaning that a larger share of the country’s workers are employed in the private sector. Private companies contribute 80% of jobs in cities, according to Vice Premier Liu He. These businesses may be less willing—or less able—to comply with the government’s request to idle workers instead of firing them, even with added incentives such as delayed payment of social security contributions. Many Chinese university students have taken to Weibo, a Twitter-like social media platform, to vent their frustrations over their career prospects. (“Graduation equals unemployment” is one slogan making the rounds.) The government has responded by expanding the number of openings at graduate school programs and directing public agencies and SOEs to give the new grads priority in hiring. That will still leave millions jockeying for jobs in the private sector, where about a third of companies plan to cut back on hiring, according to a February survey by Zhaopin.com, a site that caters to white-collar job seekers. Only 20% of the 9,000 companies polled said their hiring plans were unchanged, while almost 37% were unsure. The owners of the Guangzhou software startup don’t expect business to improve until September, when the competitive running season returns. The business typically hires 20 recent college graduates a year but will not be bringing any on board in 2020.

The amount of cash circulating in the euro area increased last week by the most since October 2008, in the latest sign that the coronavirus pandemic has sparked the biggest economic crunch at least since the global financial crisis. Cash jumped by by almost 19 billion euros ($20 billion), according to European Central Bank data. The ECB’s total balance sheet expanded by 223 billion euros as massive liquidity injections added to assets.

Yash Bazian went off his depression medication last year, because he felt his mental health was improving. But then came coronavirus. Sick people started climbing into the backseat of his car, and the nightmares started. Now he’s having trouble sleeping, and starting to gain weight. “Driving is already a very stressful job,” he said. “Imagine you add the stress of getting the virus when someone sneezes or coughs.” Bazian has been driving for Uber and Lyft in the Bay Area for three years. The work has been slower ever since the region’s shelter-in-place rules — meaning all nonessential services were to be avoided — took effect on March 17. But it hasn’t stopped. Under the now-statewide shelter orders, the private transportation industry is deemed essential. And with fears of crowding aboard buses and subways, ride-hail has become an ever-more vital supplement to the public transit that’s been chugging along down empty streets. The ride-hail drivers still on the road have been left to contend not only with weekly incomes slashed in half, but with mounting fears that by welcoming strangers into their cars, they’re inviting the virus in, too. These risks are shared by others who have joined doctors and nurses to become the de facto first responders to the coronavirus pandemic: grocery store and postal workers, delivery drivers, janitors and domestic workers, e-commerce shippers. Many of these workers are treated like independent contractors — they lack employer-provided health insurance, sick leave, or unemployment benefits. The risks of staying on the job are higher; so are the risks of stopping. “The sickness is the least of my priorities. The drop in revenue is the highest priority,” said Edan Alva, a Lyft driver who’s based in Alameda. “I live pretty much from road to mouth.” There’s a clear tension between ride-hailing and the CDC’s social distancing recommendations of keeping six feet away from others. To limit contact between passengers and drivers, Uber and Lyft have stopped all pooled rides in the U.S. and Canada markets where they’re offered. Before each new passenger gets into his car, Alva attacks each surface with disinfectant. He treats the backseat with rubbing alcohol and wipes, cleaning the lock, the door handle, the inside of the passenger door and the seatbelt buckles. He sprays the whole thing down with Lysol — especially after driving a passenger that is “coughing or displaying any signs of sickness” — and then Febreze, to cover the citrus scent. The whole routine takes 15 minutes. While Uber and Lyft have both said they’re working on providing cleaning supplies to drivers for free, Alva said he had to cover the $25 to $30 in costs himself. Bazian, too, is upping his cleaning regimen, and wearing gloves and a mask on the road. He’s spending an additional $10 and $15 a day on anti-virus supplies, he says. Most of his morning rides have been for older people getting groceries. They’re wary of him and the germs of his previous passengers, and he’s just as wary of them. “I hear some people sometimes sneeze in my car and say, ‘It’s just allergies,’” Bazian said. “I don’t know if it’s just allergies or not.” He also drives for Uber Assist, a service meant to help elderly individuals get to care appointments with a more experienced driver. “In the last couple of weeks since March started, I drove four to six people to the hospital and from the hospital,” he said. Alva has driven several passengers who appear to have an illness, he says, though he’s never sure what kind. He hasn’t taken any trips to or from a hospital, but he did drop an elderly woman off at the doctor’s to get a pneumonia shot. Mostafa Maklad, a driver for Uber and Lyft who lives in Daly City, says he’s picked up doctors and nurses on the way to work shifts. As regular movement around the city stalls, the highest-risk trips — such as shuttling health care workers or patients to and from hospitals — may become more prevalent, as Lyft and Uber try to bolster drivers’ earnings by diverting them to do other public health tasks. Lyft offers drivers the chance to join the LyftUp Driver Task Force, to do paid rides that “help neighbors get to grocery stores, workers to hospitals, and caretakers to their jobs,” and is working with government agencies to do test kit drop-offs. The company will also continue to partner with Medicaid agencies to serve as non-emergency medical transportation to doctor’s appointments. Uber Health, which gets patients to doctor’s appointments, is continuing to operate, too. “It’s important to call out that Uber Health is serving the non-emergency medical transportation space and that ridesharing is not equipped or aiming to serve as an alternative to specialized or emergency medical transportation,” said Xavier Van Chau, head of business product communications for Uber. “Examples of when Uber Health is used include travel to a dialysis appointment or a physiotherapy visit.” These trips are booked through a dashboard by health-care providers, who are tasked with assessing what kind of transportation is most appropriate. “[T]hat would exclude transporting patients who may be contagious,” Van Chau said. Despite such safeguards, there’s widespread fear that sick patients will turn to the platform anyway. Already, people afraid of incurring the high cost of an ambulance call ride-hail to pick them up in case of emergency. When the mother of a young boy from Westport, Connecticut, learned he had tested positive for Covid-19, the school called him an Uber home. To protect riders, Uber and Lyft have both said that they’ll suspend drivers who have contracted Covid-19. Uber started a 14-day sick fund to pay drivers if they test positive for the disease or if their doctor suggests they self-quarantine “due to their risk of spreading Covid-19;” Lyft’s policy, too, covers drivers with the disease and those who have been “put under individual quarantine” by a public health agency. Alva says neither policy helps him much — because of his high deductible, it would cost too much to get that doctor’s note. Moira Muntz, the spokesperson for New York City’s Independent Drivers Guild, had lobbied Uber and Lyft to strengthen their sick fund coverage. “We are glad that Uber and Lyft agreed to provide sick pay to any driver with a doctor’s note to self-isolate, but they urgently need to raise awareness of this policy and make the process easier or we will have sick and at-risk drivers continuing to work,” she said. She worries that only drivers who are at risk of spreading the disease — not at high risk of contracting a serious case of it — will be eligible. Drivers are at the front lines of the coronavirus crisis in other ways, too. On the road, they also share in people’s most intimate moments — they know where passengers travel to and from, and bear witness to the preoccupations that dominate their small talk and private phone calls. As the pandemic grips U.S. cities, they are shuttling the sick and the healthy, the fearful and foolhardy. They’re hearing first-hand how people are dealing with the uncertainty, even as they, too, grow more worried. “Anybody who’s not feeling this is either sorely misguided or inattentive,” said Steve Gregg, who’s been driving for Uber and Lyft in the Bay Area for three years and completed 16,000 rides. He’s also a member of Gig Workers Rising, an organization that advocates for independent contractors. Gregg, 51, is in more than one high-risk category for coronavirus: Along with high blood pressure, he says, he’s diabetic and borderline obese. His lungs have “been through a lot.” (“Even if I were to get it and survive it, the scar tissue in my lungs would probably be so bad that they’d be irrevocably damaged,” he said.) When he thought the virus only spread through touching infected surfaces, he felt he’d be OK and kept driving. But when he learned that it was also airborne, he got off the street immediately. “It’s like Russian roulette,” he said. “It’s a game I don’t play.” He started self-quarantining last week, which means he can’t see his children, either. Even after this ends, he’ll struggle to visit them, he says: They live 50 miles away, and he can’t afford his rental-car payment anymore. “What is it worth to put my life on the line to make not even minimum wage? I can’t do that,” he said. “It comes back to my children again. A few hundred bucks a month compared to not having a father.” Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi is lobbying the federal government to include drivers and delivery workers in any federal stimulus plan. New York City is rehiring some out-of-work Uber and Lyft drivers to do food delivery for at-risk seniors, on a first-come, first-serve basis, for $15 an hour (lower than the city’s ride-hail minimum wage, but with a commitment to pay their expenses.) Gregg is particularly frustrated that Uber and Lyft can be deemed an essential service in California and yet not be covered by basic labor rights. “How can this government — that has consistently sold out gig workers over and over — then turn around and expect us to be emergency service personnel, with no safety net, in the face of the worst pandemic in 100 years?” he said. Last year, California passed Assembly Bill 5, which was intended to enshrine misclassified gig workers like ride-hail and delivery drivers with full employment rights. So far, however, driver advocates argue that the rule hasn’t been adequately enforced; Uber, Lyft and other gig delivery companies have refused to comply with its guidance, arguing that their drivers are not misclassified, and fighting AB5 in court. In a press conference on March 24, the San Francisco Board of Supervisors introduced* a resolution to push the Office of Labor Standards Enforcement to step in to enforce AB5, and asked the city and state attorneys to file an injunction allowing workers to access employment benefits. They also called on the city’s Department of Public Health to issue minimum health and safety requirements, which include providing additional sanitary supplies and workers’ compensation benefits “should they come into contact with a customer who has been infected.” “There’s always a segment of the population who is or will be in desperate need of work and can be taken advantage of, theoretically,” said Alva. “The question is: Do we as a society want the people who are desperate to be taken advantage of to the point where they can’t afford their own health care?” CORRECTION: San Francisco’s Board of Supervisors introduced a resolution to push officials to enforce AB5. It has not yet passed.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Coronavirus cases in Australia from a single infected cruise ship exploded, highlighting again the dangers the vessels pose to governments fighting the spread of the virus.

Reese Scott started boxing 17 years ago and dreamed of setting up her studio for almost as long. In 2018 she started Women’s World of Boxing, the first female-owned boxing gym in New York and, according to ClassPass Inc., the most popular workout in Manhattan on its app. Last week, as social distancing measures took hold across the city—and then the country—she temporarily closed her 2,300-square-foot, exposed-brick studio and, for the first time, streamed her workout on Instagram. From her Harlem apartment she maneuvered lighting and camera frames to best display her full 5-foot-4-inch frame in a 2-by-3-foot space. Especially challenging, she says, is that clients need to be able to see her footwork.

Facebook Inc. said its advertising business is taking a hit in some parts of the world as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, even as demand for information and messaging drives an “unprecedented” spike in usage for many of its services. “Our business is being adversely affected like so many others,” the world’s largest social network wrote in a blog post on Tuesday.

At the height of Tuesday morning’s equity rebound, a second-by-second measure of investor buying interest registered its highest reading ever. The number of rising stocks exceeded those headed lower by 1,880 at one point in the first few hours after the open of regular trading on the New York Stock Exchange -- a record surge in buying. This happened as the S&P 500 jumped more than 7%, rebounding from the 34% plunge that ended the bull market.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Sierra Leone, one of the few countries yet to declare a case of coronavirus, introduced a 12-month state of emergency to deal with the disease.

France is setting up a 4 billion-euro ($4.3 billion) package to help the country’s startups survive the coronavirus pandemic and maintain cash levels between fundraising rounds. “Our goal is for startups to pass that crisis and then continue with their growth,” Digital Minister Cedric O said on Radio Classique on Wednesday. “Startups represent between one-sixth and one-fifth of jobs created in France today, so it’s extremely important.”

The Philippines’ biggest liquor makers are gearing to produce a different kind of alcohol - the disinfecting agent that hospitals are in dire need of and has vanished from most grocery shelves. San Miguel Corp.’s Ginebra San Miguel Inc. will produce 100,000 liters per day of 70% ethyl alcohol in all its six facilities amid a shortage in disinfectants and hand sanitizers, President Ramon Ang said. The Philippines’ largest company is fermenting molasses used at its gin distillery to make rubbing alcohol that will be donated to hospitals and villages across the country, Ang said.

Billionaire Tilman Fertitta said he’s had to temporarily lay off roughly 40,000 workers at his casino, hotel and restaurant empire to limit the economic damage caused by government-imposed shut-downs. The Texas native, who owns the Golden Nugget casinos as well as hundreds of restaurants including Del Frisco’s and Bubba Gump Shrimp under the Landry’s Inc. umbrella, is calling on the authorities to allow businesses to reopen at limited capacity in a couple of weeks to avoid economic disaster.

TierPoint LLC, a provider of data centers and other technology services to clients including Hewlett Packard Enterprise Co. and the National Hockey League, is getting backing from a group led by Argo Infrastructure Partners, Wafra Inc., and Macquarie Group Ltd.’s principal investment arm. Existing investors including RedBird Capital Partners LLC and Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan are also participating in the $320 million preferred equity investment. Proceeds will be used to pay down a second-lien credit facility, repay a portion of the company’s revolving credit facility and help expand the business.

Chevron Corp. became the latest major oil company to take an ax to its budget after halting its $5 billion-a-year share buyback and halving spending in the Permian Basin, which means a large decrease in projected output from America’s biggest shale region. The California-based oil giant said Tuesday it’s lowering projected 2020 capital spending by 20%, or $4 billion. The Permian will account for the largest single element of that reduction, translating into 125,000 fewer barrels of oil equivalent per day than previously forecast, a quantity equal to about 2.5% of the basin’s total current production.

Want the lowdown on what's moving European markets in your inbox every morning? Sign up here. Good morning. The U.K. went into lockdown, Wuhan could soon reopen, a different U.S. rescue package has been proposed and equity futures are pointing higher. Here’s what’s moving markets.

JPMorgan Chase & Co. froze hiring across most of the firm as millions of people stay at home to help stem the spread of the coronavirus, according to people familiar with the matter. The bank asked managers in businesses including the corporate and investment bank, the consumer unit, and the asset- and wealth-management group to review job postings and pull listings for roles that don’t need to be filled immediately, said the people, who asked not to be identified discussing the private plans.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India will be locked down for three week to help contain the spread of coronavirus infections. In a televised address to the nation, Modi said there will be a nationwide curfew and citizens will have to stay indoors.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. As the coronavirus death toll surges across much of Europe, one country remains an anomaly.

The Trump administration is helping states get equipment amid the coronavirus outbreak, but it “is not easy,” President Donald Trump said in a tweet on Tuesday. The tweet comes as China’s ventilator makers rush to fill global orders. Last week, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said the state, which has about 5,000 to 6,000 ventilators, might need 30,000 of them.

U.S. consumers’ ratings of the economy dropped by a record over the past week as the coronavirus halted business, dragging down a broader confidence gauge by the most since 2007. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index tumbled 3.3 points to a four-month low of 59.7, according to the survey released Tuesday based on responses collected through Sunday. Views of the buying climate fell to a 10-month low while those for personal finances also deteriorated amid the rout in stocks.

The main U.S. derivatives regulator is taking a significant step in defining the sometimes blurry line between cryptocurrency futures and trading in the spot market. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission on Tuesday laid out its view on what it means to take “actual delivery” of a digital asset. The long-awaited guidance is significant because it means that there could be penalties for trades that don’t let the buyer take physical possession and control of a coin within 28 days -- the cut off line for when trades in commodities like wheat and oil start to be considered futures contracts.

As the coronavirus roils markets, dealmakers are pulling out all their tricks to get transactions done. Auctions are accelerating in case conditions worsen. Sellers are choosing cash upfront over higher offers; and they’re doing it all over video chat while pets and children roam in the background.Welcome to M&A during a pandemic. “I think people are grasping the fact they need to do their jobs when everyone is home, and you have to deal with your family and chores,” said David Gandler, chief executive officer of FuboTV Inc., which agreed on Monday to merge with FaceBank Group Inc. “This is creating some chaos but not too much. We all understand the situation.”Indeed: Deals are still getting done, despite market turmoil whipsawing stocks, threatening liquidity and muddling valuation predictions. Companies have announced $67.5 billion of mergers, acquisitions and investments since the virus was deemed a pandemic on March 11, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.

Free-speech advocates can move forward with a lawsuit alleging U.S. President Donald Trump violated the Constitution by threatening journalists and news organizations who have criticized his administration. U.S. District Judge Lorna Schofield on Tuesday denied Trump’s request to throw out the case, saying the threats are credible because Trump has barred reporters from press conferences before and revoked CNN correspondent Jim Acosta’s credentials.

At a time when shortages of protective gear are putting health-care workers at risk, more than 750,000 medical-grade masks went up for online auction in Texas. Bottles of Purell sold for over $40. A box of 16 masks went for $170. They could be had retail for $3 each before the coronavirus.

The Bank of Canada said it will start acquiring provincially-issued money market securities, the latest in a series of steps to smooth friction from the nation’s financial system. The central bank said Tuesday it will buy securities directly from provinces through its newly established Provincial Money Market Purchase facility, with the first operation scheduled for March 25. The Ottawa-based bank had unveiled a series of programs aimed at injecting liquidity into Canadian funding markets, which continue to show signs of strain despite the best efforts of policy makers.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. As lockdowns spread across the U.S., the U.K. and other countries, early lessons on how effective they’ll be against the new coronavirus are coming from abroad.



















We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The global economy is taking a battering not seen in decades, the outcome of severe restrictions on businesses and households by governments desperately trying to contain a pandemic that’s killed almost 17,000 people worldwide.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. T​​​​urkey’s best-known soccer coach, who urged authorities to postpone matches due to the coronavirus outbreak, has tested positive for the disease and is in quarantine.

Nordex SE is facing a shortage of supplies and people due to the coronavirus crisis, denting the German-Spanish wind turbine maker’s ability to weather the pandemic with its increasingly global reach, said its Chief Executive Officer Jose Luis Blanco. “It helps a lot to have a diversified business across the globe and that wasn’t the case four or five years ago,” Blanco said by phone. But the virus is already “really hurting us” by crimping workforce and component availability, he said, citing choked parts supplies from China as an early marker of what the virus can do.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Nigeria’s central bank held its benchmark interest rate, going against the global trend of slashing borrowing costs to ease the economic pain of the coronavirus pandemic.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. The international medical charity Medecins Sans Frontieres said it’s “currently put on hold” its plans to set up a makeshift hospital in Iran to help critically ill coronavirus patients.

We’re tracking the latest on the coronavirus outbreak and the global response. Sign up here for our daily newsletter on what you need to know. Britons stuck at home due to the coronavirus outbreak are hitting the online casinos, providing a boost for operators of virtual games such as blackjack and roulette.

Want to receive this post in your inbox every day? Sign up for the Balance of Power newsletter, and follow Bloomberg Politics on Twitter and Facebook for more. The coronavirus spread is throwing up all sorts of challenges for governments.

Facebook closed its London offices until Monday for deep cleaning after a Singapore-based employee, who previously visited their London bureau, tested positive for the coronavirus. “An employee based in our Singapore office who has been diagnosed with COVID-19 visited our London offices 24-26 February 2020,” a company spokesperson said in an emailed statement on Friday. “We are therefore closing our London offices until Monday for deep cleaning and employees are working from home until then.”

As new cases of coronavirus begin to pop up in London, restaurateurs are bracing for more pain, with plans to tighten spending and cut staff hours. Restaurants have already taken a hit with many reporting business down at least 10%, with the drop surging to 50% in Chinatown. The U.K. has confirmed more than 85 cases, though almost all of them have been outside the capital. That may be changing with cases reported in the city’s teeming financial districts. On Thursday HSBC Holdings Plc partially evacuated its London headquarters in Canary Wharf after an employee tested positive. Deloitte LLP also had a confirmed case in its offices in the City of London on March 3, the Financial Times reported.

Want the lowdown on what's moving European markets in your inbox every morning? Sign up here. Good morning. Coronavirus cases near 100,000, OPEC takes a big gamble and U.K.-European Union talks started with some “argy bargy.” Here’s what’s moving markets.

Disease shapes cities. Some of the most iconic developments in urban planning and management, such as London’s Metropolitan Board of Works and mid-19th century sanitation systems, developed in response to public health crises such as cholera outbreaks. Now COVID-19 is joining a long list of infectious diseases, like the Spanish flu of 1918 in New York and Mexico City or the Ebola Virus Disease in West Africa in 2014, likely to leave enduring marks on urban spaces. For Michele Acuto, professor of global urban politics in the School of Design at the University of Melbourne, the intersection of urban design and public health is an increasingly critical territory. He’s the director of the Connected Cities Lab, a leading center for advancing urban policy development; he’s worked on urban health in a number of capacities, including with the European Commission and the World Health Organization’s Western Pacific Regional Office. While the University of Melbourne scrambles to accelerate a COVID-19 vaccine, the Lab is working to understand the urban planning dimensions of pandemic preparedness.   CityLab spoke to Acuto about why COVID-19 could change how we study cities — and how we live in them. Much of the coverage of the new coronavirus feels unprecedented, as if this is the first time urban spaces and global movement of goods and people have given rise to the threat of pandemic. But the stories of cities have always also been those of infectious disease. Anyone you talk to on the urban or medical side would tell you this is not new. You can do parallels between COVID-19 and many other epi- and pandemics, from the plague to SARS and Ebola. The line of caution we need here is not to draw too many parallels or rushed conclusions without evidence. COVID-19 is not as deadly as Ebola, which had a mortality rate of 60%, or SARS and MERS at 30%. But if the risk of death is lower, transmission is much higher, and that makes it challenging globally. Quarantines only work insofar as you can identify all dangerous cases, and with COVID-19’s symptoms and delayed onset, you can’t spot it that easily. In that way this is much more similar to the 1918 Spanish flu epidemic, which inflected 500 million and killed up to 50 million.* The question is whether we are prepared to avoid that. Looking back, did we miss something in the way we were thinking about the intersection of urbanization and infectious disease? Were we looking in the wrong places? Yes, to a degree. We have perhaps been a bit too biased toward global cities. COVID-19 is really a story of peri-urban and rural-to-urban connections, in places that are often not on the global map. Roger Keil, Creighton Connolly and Harris Ali recently argued for this suburban view. They tell the story of how the spread to Germany starts with a car [parts] factory in the outskirts in Wuhan. A person travels from Wuhan to Germany to help with training. This is a story of peri-urban Wuhan to semi-suburban, tertiary-city Bavaria. So sure, you have some of the global connections at airports, but it’s a much more complex urban system. This is a rich point. It’s easy to look at these major cities and global supply chains, and say of course we have an epidemic — this is how globalization plays itself out. But you’re telling a different story — one about non-global cities, tertiary cities and peri-urban areas.  Yes, it’s actually about a much wider set of urban areas. This is the story in Washington state [where COVID-19 first emerged in Snohomish County], or the Italian story, which is still largely suburban. Part of the history of urbanization is building and managing your way out of infectious diseases, such as cholera outbreaks in the middle of the 19th century. Here’s Richard Sennett on how Joseph Bazalgette and his colleagues went about developing London’s response: “They were not practising an exact science. They did not apply established principles in particular cases, there were no general policies that dictated best practices.” They experimented and learned as they went along, he argues. How do you conceive of the design approach to managing outbreaks in everything from global to tertiary cities? It’s a bit early to take on lessons learned from COVID-19, but you’d probably have a big conversation about the value versus the risks of densification. Clearly densification is and has been the problem with some of this. COVID-19 puts a fundamental challenge to how we manage urbanization. Hong Kong has 17,311 people per square mile. Rethinking density management is a key for long-term survival in a pandemic world, really. Part of this means thinking about decentralization of essential services. Singapore had to shut down its main hospitals during SARS. Many countries such as Italy are considering door-to-door testing. But we need to also rethink the ways, perhaps digital ones, we test and contain. How would we manage to do door-to-door testing even just in Melbourne alone, with 5 million residents, and in giants like Shanghai and London with upwards of 10 million dwellers? Bubbling up are some core questions about what we’ve been told is desirable urbanization versus what makes sense from an infectious disease perspective. Here’s a difficult question. Even Le Corbusier, who prized efficiency and movement, understood the value of people bumping into each other. It gives cities their energy and cosmopolitanism its effect. I wonder if you think this decentralized city — a London of villages, Mayor Hidalgo’s 15-minute Paris — will be part of our response in urban form? Here’s a way to think about it. SARS got some people to think about cities and their connectivity as a fundamental factor. Fast-forward to Ebola and that got people to think about the coexistence of cities in the Global North and South, and the ferocity of the city itself — the impossibility of just cordoning it off. The city is not a thing: it’s an amorphous blob. Fast forward to now, and we’ve moved beyond Global North-Global South thinking. It’s one very large system, given it’s really about that connection between, for example, [the Italian village of] Codogno and the outskirts of Wuhan. Hopefully this gets us to think about some fundamental principles. We need to begin with a new imagination of the urban data we rely on. The best thing a professional probably looks at in this moment is Johns Hopkins’s CSSE aggregator of information. It splashes together data sources from WHO, NHS, and so on. Many national governments’ “official” numbers lag, so there’s better information by aggregating different sources of information. But this also brings into play the current digital revolution and the challenges of evidence that has different levels of legitimacy. Had this happened not, say, in China but in some place like India with very strong informal settlements, you’d potentially be arguing that something like Slum Dwellers International, which uses local mapping and communities to source data, would probably be the best-suited entity to support the collection of information. You’ve gotten something there about the legitimacy of different types of urban knowledge and the need to rethink who are the right sources of it. Moving from that information to changes within the built environment again, we know the management of water and waste helped remake cities. Can you predict the area where we might see a radical transformation coming out of this? We must remember you will be weighing such changes in the context of climate change and sustainability as well. If you spread the city rather than densify, that would have to go with much better connectivity of public transport. What should change — the decentralization of services, better managing of supplies, nets of smaller entities in food delivery, for instance — is different from will. Will market forces sway the things we do towards what’s marketable and economically profitable versus saying this clearly is a call for redundancy in public health and public transport? One thing I’ve barely heard talked about is the digital response here, which didn’t exist at all at the time of most of our historic parallels. It existed a bit during Ebola, but not in the same size as this. Major services like Tencent and AliBaba can tell you who is sick in your neighborhood, and people are making daily decisions based on the whole digital infrastructure. I come from an hour from the “red zone” in Italy, and family and friends make a lot of decisions based on digital connectivity information. Modern planning and civil engineering were born out of the mid-19th century development of sanitation in response to the spread of malaria and cholera in cities. Digital infrastructure might be the sanitation of our time.*CORRECTION: An earlier version of this story used an inaccurate figure for the 1918 influenza epidemic.

The deadly coronavirus, which has now spread to more than 70 countries worldwide, looks to be becoming a global pandemic, Singapore’s National Development Minister Lawrence Wong said on Friday. With cases emerging throughout Europe and in the U.S. “it is starting to look like a global pandemic everywhere in the world and as I said it is not going to be possible to shut ourselves out,” said Wong, who is co-chair of a multi-ministry task force established to deal with the virus.

A 62-year-old Filipino male who hasn’t traveled outside the country has tested positive for novel coronavirus, the Philippines’ first local case, Health Secretary Francisco Duque said. A 48-year-old Filipino male who visited Tokyo also tested positive of the virus, bringing the Philippines’ total confirmed cases to five, Duque said in a televised briefing in Manila.

Early on the morning of March 3, hours after a tornado devastated parts of Nashville, Anne Barnett grabbed her chainsaw and got to work. A friend with a truck drove with her to North Nashville, a predominantly African American neighborhood that was struck especially hard by the storm. Felled trees blocked the roads. Telephone poles were snapped in two. Downed power lines snaked across streets. Other volunteers showed up with heavy work gloves and trucks, ready to help haul tree limbs away. It was hard to know where to start or where to go, Barnett says, because the damage stretched in every direction. Others were drawn to North Nashville that morning, too — but not to volunteer. “Within two hours, I saw a wealthier-looking, white, middle-aged gentleman walking around, talking to homeowners and handing out business cards,” Barnett says. “We were cutting a tree out of this elderly lady’s yard, and I was like, ‘What was he talking about?’ She was like, ‘He wanted me to sell my house.’ I was like, ‘Are you fucking kidding me?’” The storm claimed at least 24 lives across four counties in Middle Tennessee, destroying some 400 homes in Nashville. But even as the first city workers were arriving in affected neighborhoods, real-estate investors were already on the scene in North Nashville, looking to relieve distressed homeowners of their properties, according to Barnett as well as other community members who heard rumors about house offers. While the details of reported offers are unclear, Barnett’s observation raises an issue that has popped up before during crises in this and other historically black Nashville neighborhoods. A surge of speculation in the wake of the storm would suit the hot Nashville market — residents in this part of the city are used to getting mailers and phone calls with cash offers for their homes. Now, the pressure on residents is tremendous, thanks in part to a federal program that has singled out this neighborhood for investment. In 2018, North Nashville was designated as an Opportunity Zone, the Trump administration’s place-based tax incentive program designed to lure capital to distressed areas. Local housing advocates, fearing that homeowners who were affected by the storm might feel like they have few other options, are putting together workshops to offer legal and financial advice to residents in North Nashville, which still lacks electricity. There’s even a hashtag-ready motto for the resistance campaign: “Don’t Sell Out North,” referring to a name that longtime natives use for the neighborhood, Out North. “Developers have been chomping at the bit thinking about that neighborhood for a while,” says Barnett, who is an organizer with the Central Labor Council for Nashville and Middle Tennessee. “It’s really, really scary to think about how this storm is going to change that neighborhood, not just the way it looks but who lives there and who has equity there.” There are good reasons to worry. Framed by the Cumberland River and cut off from the rest of the city by two urban-renewal-era highways, North Nashville is one of the poorest places in the metro area. The median income for much of North Nashville is about $29,000, with some 36% of households living in poverty. In an adjacent census tract — Germantown, just across I-65 — the median income is $97,000. Many black homeowners in North Nashville lack the cash in hand that it takes to weather a crisis. (Most of the area’s residents are renters, who face a different precarious situation.) Working through insurance claims and federal assistance takes time; the process can be exhausting and intimidating. If investors showed up with their checkbooks the morning after the storm, they may have been offering stressed-out residents a life raft. Zulfat Suara, an at-large member of Nashville Metro Council,  says that she hasn't seen direct evidence that speculators are now looking to buy houses from storm victims in North Nashville. “Historically, that’s happened before,” she says, referring to speculation following part storms. “That’s my understanding from people who have lived in the community for a long time. People are saying that’s already happening.” Most homeowners are better off staying in their homes, if they’re able to, says Charlane Oliver, cofounder and executive director for the Equity Alliance, a nonprofit advocacy group. Her group is holding two community meetings on March 9 in North Nashville to bring together attorneys, insurance agents, financial counselors, and local officials to talk with folks about their options. “We don’t want these homeowners to sell their property,” Oliver says. “It can be more valuable as a homeowner and landowner to keep that property.” To Odessa Kelly of Stand Up Nashville, a local coalition of community groups and labor unions, the threat of neighborhood displacement in the wake of the tornado looks like a local illustration of “disaster capitalism,” the term that author and activist Naomi Klein coined for profit-seeking amid natural or man-made catastrophes. Traumatized residents of distressed neighborhoods are especially vulnerable to exploitation, and the need for legal expertise is every bit as urgent as mobilization drives for food and flashlights. “Organizers are first responders,” Kelly says. Much of the destruction associated with the March 3 storm happened in Germantown and East Nashville, which are home to Nashville’s world-famous nightlife districts. Residents of North Nashville work in those bars and restaurants, Oliver says, compounding the problems they face at home. Some residents working in the service industry may have lost both their homes and workplaces. By almost any indicator, North Nashville is a highly distressed community. A report by the Brookings Institution found that the zip code that encompasses North Nashville has the highest incarceration rate in the country, for example. But the area may be uniquely vulnerable to exploitation in the wake of a disaster. The think tank that helped to write the Opportunity Zone legislation, the Economic Innovation Group, has compiled detailed statistical reports with scores measuring a community’s well-being. Among those scores is the cold-and-calculating-sounding Social Vulnerability Index, which measures a community’s ability to endure crises. “Communities that are more vulnerable to disasters, whether natural or human-made, have higher risk factors, including higher presence of vulnerable people and higher levels of housing instability,” the EIG report reads. On a scale of zero to one, a North Nashville tract almost pegs this misery meter, earning a 0.98. “These are the type of social ills that we are dealing with,” Oliver says. “People have not seen the improvements in their communities for decades. We’re feeling the remnants of the war on drugs, mass incarceration, blighted areas, gentrification. All of that is affecting this area.” Opportunity Zones were meant to shift these long-established patterns of disinvestment. Part of the massive tax cut package passed by Congress in December 2017, the Opportunity Zone program allows investors to defer their tax liability on capital gains by investing in assets within designated communities. But states were given great leeway in designating census tracts within their borders, and the IRS set few boundaries on what counted as qualified investments. What has resulted, say critics, is a “once-in-a-generation bonanza for elite investors.” Cadre, a start-up that specializes in real-estate investments in Opportunity Zones, has targeted Nashville among other cities. In an investment profile in January, Cadre compared the city to pre-boom Austin, describing Nashville as a “coveted real estate opportunity.” Jared Kushner, the son-in-law of President Donald Trump, just sold his stake in Cadre for between $25 million and $50 million. Speculators descending on North Nashville right now may simply be looking to flip properties. The New York Times reported on an unverified rumor that people in Land Rovers were scouting houses in the neighborhood this week. Oliver says that North Nashville is a target for developers looking to build “tall-and-skinnies” — narrow two-story houses, usually built in pairs, that have popped up in place of demolished one-story houses across the city. Oliver says that these detached duplexes tend to be used for short-term rental platforms such as Airbnb, not rental housing. Gentrification in Nashville has proceeded hand-in-hand with a surge in experience-based tourism. Music City is now the nation’s capital for bachelorette parties. That’s a danger for a gentrifying North Nashville in the grip of a deep affordability crisis — especially now that a natural disaster is forcing longtime residents to choose between surviving and preserving their homes and communities. Residents who choose to stay are now eligible for individual assistance through the Federal Emergency Management Agency. This weekend, teams of canvassers with clipboards organized by the local Equity Alliance will go door-to-door to try to assess the needs of local homeowners (and renters) in hopes of assembling a database to hand over to FEMA once the agency puts boots on the ground. Right now, the people living in North Nashville are struggling to meet their basic needs. They might not know that help is on the way; in these vulnerable moments, a cash offer from a well-dressed man in a suit might look tempting. “What we don’t want to see happen is what happened in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina,” Oliver says. “You had developers come into the Ninth Ward and buy up all the properties. Now the Ninth Ward doesn’t look like the Ninth Ward anymore.”

Too skittish to get on a plane? You may be in luck. With the rapidly expanding coronavirus outbreak upending travel across the globe, many airlines are waiving the fees typically charged to change or cancel a plane ticket. Here’s a roundup of the coronavirus policies of major U.S. carriers:

Hachette Book Group has decided not to publish film director Woody Allen’s upcoming memoir, a day after employees at the company walked out in solidarity with Ronan Farrow. In a statement, Hachette said it will return all rights to Allen and the decision to cancel his book was “a difficult one.”

A group of economists have cautioned India’s government against clubbing data collection for its controversial citizens’ register with the census exercise, saying it could have implications for the nation’s statistical system. The census is a basic household and population list based on anonymous data, whereas there are fears the National Population Register could be used to question a person’s citizenship, according to an open letter to the government by 190 economists including Jayati Ghosh, a professor at New Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University, and Maitreesh Ghatak of the London School of Economics.

Microsoft Corp. disclosed the first known cases of coronavirus infection among its employees Thursday, joining fellow tech giants Amazon.com Inc. and Facebook Inc. in revealing the disease in their ranks. Microsoft said two employees, one working out of its main Redmond, Washington campus and a second, a remote LinkedIn worker, have contracted Covid-19. Both have been quarantined, a company representative said.

For years, Tesla Inc. has refuted concerns about worker safety at its main assembly plant by describing reviews from a California regulator as vindication. But new documents and statements from the agency contradict those claims. Tesla omitted hundreds of injuries that the company listed in logs at its factory from annual summary data that the company sends to the government, according to a memorandum the state’s workplace-safety agency sent in December. California’s Division of Occupational Safety and Health, or Cal/OSHA, also hit Tesla with a citation that month for failing to properly record other injuries in its logs since 2015.

The Danish government wants to suspend or postpone large public gatherings planned for this month in a bid to contain the spread of the coronavirus, Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen said Friday. There have been 21 confirmed cases of coronavirus and no fatalities in Denmark so far.

When Recep Tayyip Erdogan was inaugurated as Turkey’s president with enhanced powers in 2018, Venezuelan counterpart and admirer Nicolas Maduro called him the “leader of the new multi-polar world.” In Syria, however, Erdogan appears to have tested to destruction the ability of a country with no nuclear arsenal, few natural resources and an economy roughly the size of Spain’s to carve a sphere of influence for itself.

EssilorLuxottica’s management dispute flared up again as French directors blocked a plan by their Italian counterparts to oust the head of the Essilor lensmaking business. The board of directors had a heated meeting Thursday in which some members demanded the resignation of Essilor Chief Executive Officer Laurent Vacherot following a 190 million-euro ($215 million) fraud discovered at a plant in Thailand. The motion was sidelined because the vote was split between representatives of the French and Italian sides of the company, according to people familiar with the board’s discussions.

Mastercard Inc. closed its office in Sao Paulo and an annex location near its headquarters in New York after an employee contracted coronavirus. The Brazil-based employee traveled to the annex office in Purchase, New York, earlier this week, the company said in a statement Friday. The two locations are undergoing a “thorough sanitization process,” it said.

The Philippines must relax one of the world’s strictest bank secrecy laws so the government can crack down on suspected cash smuggling being linked to online casinos, Finance Secretary Carlos Dominguez said. Congress should pass long-standing bills that would lift deposit secrecy in cases of fraud and to expand the powers of the Anti-Money Laundering Council, Dominguez told a press briefing in Manila on Friday. “If people in the legislature want more teeth to look at this, please give us more teeth. You want us to do a job, give us the tools,” he said.

Organizers of South by Southwest canceled this year’s arts, music and technology festival in Austin, Texas, citing concerns from city officials about the continuing spread of the coronavirus. The gathering attracts hundreds of thousands of people to the city each year to catch a glimpse of some of the world’s biggest bands, filmmakers, politicians and business executives. The event, which was scheduled to begin in a week, is a substantial force in the local economy.

The prevalence of malaria in Africa could complicate the diagnosis of novel coronavirus in the continent, said the epidemiologist leading the fight against the new disease in Nigeria.Nigerian health officials are racing to prevent the spread of coronavirus after the first case of the illness in sub-Saharan Africa was identified last week in Lagos, the nation’s business hub. Since then only three more cases have been identified in Senegal and South Africa, while the number of infected have surged in other regions after the illness first appeared in China. Similar symptoms such as body aches at the onset of both diseases could make it difficult to diagnose the coronavirus early on, said Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, the head of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control.

Coronavirus has reached Europe’s busiest airport, after two British Airways baggage handlers at London Heathrow tested positive for the disease. The affected workers are recovering in isolation at home, British Airways parent IAG SA said Friday in an email. A small number of the luggage handlers’ colleagues are also being tested, a person familiar with the matter said.

Sign up for Next China, a weekly email on where the nation stands now and where it's going next. China’s desire to support its financial markets in the wake of the virus outbreak may have moved the needle too far the other way.

Want the lowdown on European markets? In your inbox before the open, every day. Sign up here. Europe’s so-called ‘zombies’ -- heavily indebted and poorly performing companies that have staggered on for years feasting on cheap credit -- may have finally met their match in the coronavirus.

U.S. lawmakers are pushing regulators to provide room for banks to work out loans with businesses and consumers who may be affected by the coronavirus. Banks may need some “ability to work with the regulators so that if people look like they’re becoming more credit risky because of the virus, the banks aren’t treated badly for treating them fairly,” Senator Mark Warner, a Virginia Democrat and member of the Senate Banking Committee said in an interview.

Deputy White House communications director Adam Kennedy, who was part of the administration’s rapid response efforts during the impeachment trial, is leaving his post for a job in the private sector, an official said. Kennedy’s last day will be Friday, but he’ll remain on staff until the end of the month, the official added.

An employee at HSBC Holdings Plc in China has been infected by the coronavirus, adding to the bank’s troubles after it partially evacuated its London office as another employee there tested positive. In a memo to staff, interim Chief Executive Noel Quinn said that a Chinese employee has been in self-quarantine, “and is stable and recovering.” The infected employee, who’s now in good condition, works at the bank’s Wuhan branch and hasn’t been in contact with any HSBC staff or customers since late January, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman said in an email.

President Donald Trump ordered the Chinese acquisition of a hotel property management software company reversed on national security grounds. Trump ordered Beijing Shiji Information Technology Co. to unwind its 2018 acquisition of StayNTouch Inc., the White House said in a statement on Friday.

Many Lyft Inc. and Uber Technologies Inc. drivers have seen a bump in business from the spreading coronavirus, but they’re also weighing the risks of staying safe versus continuing to earn a paycheck. A study to be published Friday shows that more than half of ride-hailing drivers said they were now “very concerned” about reduced earnings as a result of the virus and 41% said they’ve modified their driving strategy as a result. These changes include reducing hours, refusing airport rides and halting driving entirely.

What started as a bold plan to slow the spread of the coronavirus in the Seattle area is quickly devolving into a Nimby battle. Officials in King County, Washington, the epicenter of the outbreak in the U.S., said this week they would use emergency powers to buy and renovate an Econo Lodge south of Seattle to house virus patients.

AIB Group Plc plans to shed about about 15% of its staff by 2022, as the state-controlled lender grapples with rising costs and sluggish loan growth. “We will see reductions over the coming three years of approximately 1,500 staff,” Chief Financial Officer Donal Galvin said in a phone interview after the bank’s earnings on Friday. AIB had about 9,500 staff at the end of 2019. Most of the cuts will come from teams working on reducing the bank’s bad loans and “head office” type job, he said.

The Trump administration has moved a step closer to requiring the collection of DNA samples from many of the undocumented immigrants held in U.S. detention facilities, a dramatic expansion of enforcement powers that civil rights groups say could be abused. Under a new rule announced Friday, the Department of Homeland Security can collect DNA samples from non-U.S. citizens who are being detained for criminal offenses in federal facilities. The samples would be put into a massive database operated by the FBI that federal, state and local authorities use to identify and locate violent criminals who are in the country illegally.

A Bayer AG investor sued the board and other top company officials, claiming the “disastrous” 2018 acquisition of Monsanto Co. eroded the company’s share value by saddling it with potentially billions of dollars in liability from Roundup lawsuits. Bayer AG’s board and other top officials were sued by an investor who claims the “disastrous” 2018 acquisition of Monsanto Co. saddled the company with potentially billions of dollars in costly lawsuits over Roundup herbicide.

Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Cameroon and Togo reported their first cases of coronavirus on Friday, raising the number of countries in sub-Saharan Africa with confirmed incidents to five.

President Donald Trump has decided to defend in court the U.S. government’s power to broadly waive biofuel requirements for many oil refineries. The decision to appeal a federal court ruling imperiling those exemptions follows an intervention by Attorney General Bill Barr and an intense pressure campaign by oil-state senators, including Ted Cruz, a Texas Republican. The plan was described by five people familiar with the matter who asked for anonymity before a formal announcement.

The extraordinary number of Democrats who cast ballots in presidential primaries on Super Tuesday might be worrisome for President Donald Trump. But Republicans appear to be just as excited to keep him in the White House. Across nine Super Tuesday states where data is available, Democratic turnout rose an average of 33% compared to 2016. Virginia saw the most dramatic rise with a 69% spike in turnout. Texas had a 43% jump from 2016 numbers and in Tennessee, turnout increased by 38%.

The Federal Reserve has imposed a minimum seven to 10 day quarantine on physical U.S. currency it receives from Asia before processing as a precautionary measure, even though the coronavirus mainly spreads by human-to-human contact, according to a spokeswoman. The Fed maintains a contingency stock of currency to meet demand, and routinely processes notes and coins as part of its services to banks. There is currently $1.75 trillion of Federal Reserve notes in circulation.

La Roche-Posay Cicaplast Baume B5 The French brand uses the output of its famous thermal springs to treat various dermic conditions—acne, skin allergies, or side effects from cancer treatments—in fuss-free fashion. This multipurpose balm combines panthenol (a humectant) and shea butter, along with the selenium-, copper-, and calcium-rich water, to calm dry, overscrubbed skin. $14.99; laroche-posay.us

Europeans grumble that they haven’t had a truly global tech giant since Nokia Oyj’s heyday. But for Europe’s banks, the most pressing digital need isn’t for a homegrown phone that can compete with Apple Inc.’s or Google’s. The banks are looking for cloud computing providers with higher security standards than they can find in the U.S. Their search is far from over. In a recent Bloomberg survey of Europe’s top banks, 22 of 22 respondents said their primary cloud services are American. The three leading U.S. cloud providers—Amazon, Microsoft, and Google—are at the top, though unlike in the broader market, Microsoft Corp. beats out Amazon.com Inc. for No. 1. Rounding out the list are IBM, Salesforce.com, and NetApp. While some lenders say they also work with European cloud companies, it’s usually in a secondary role. The U.S. companies’ servers support the sophisticated numbers crunching for tasks like risk management and increasingly house such sensitive data as borrowers’ personal information. The banks aren’t happy about this. The virtue of off-site cloud servers is that their scale generally allows companies to store and compute data for less than they’d spend on their own—and the prices per unit of storage tend to decrease markedly with each passing year. Europe’s institutions are already losing the investment banking wars with Wall Street and can’t afford to cede competitive advantages. But some bankers say they worry about client data in the hands of foreign companies. U.S. tech doesn’t enjoy the reputation for trustworthiness that it did even a few years ago, when European regulators were among the first to challenge the industry’s standards for privacy and competition.  Data: Compiled by Bloomberg  Now, German and French government officials are in talks with leaders in telecommunications, technology, and finance to create a competitive continental cloud service run by local tech companies. At the same time, banks including Germany’s Commerzbank AG are trying to team up to present joint cloud demands to U.S. providers in an effort to increase the little leverage they have. “Europe is looking at ensuring technological sovereignty and reducing its dependence because it does fear that somehow, all of a sudden, technologies that we depend on could be switched off,” says Eline Chivot, a Brussels-based analyst at the Center for Data Innovation, a U.S. think tank. The banks’ odds aren’t great. Previous attempts to build European alternatives to U.S. tech have foundered, and at this point the upfront costs would be immense. Microsoft says it spends more than $1 billion a year just on its global cloud network’s security, while European banks are struggling with declining revenue and profit. “In 2020, waking up and saying that we want to build a European cloud, I’d say it may be too late,” says Bernard Gavgani, chief information officer at French banking group BNP Paribas SA.  Data: European Banking Authority  Big Tech is also savvier about lobbying regulators than it used to be, working actively to charm market watchdogs it ignored five years ago, say three regulators who spoke on condition of anonymity because they weren’t authorized to discuss the matter. Patrice Amann, a leader of the Microsoft cloud team catering to financial-services companies in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa, says increased outreach efforts represent an interest in a constructive dialogue. “It’s really to understand what is the concern, how this concern is progressing, and what we need to do as a company to comply completely with the rules,” Amann says. There’s no legal requirement for banks to keep data in the European Union, but the bloc’s regulators have nudged them in that direction. Several cloud companies offer lenders the use of servers based in Europe or their home country specifically. “They need to evaluate the risk of having data in a location that applies different security and data protection standards,” says Slavka Eley, head of banking markets, innovation, and products at the European Banking Authority. “If the risk is too high, they shouldn’t agree to such locations.”  Data: Bloomberg survey asking “Who is your primary cloud provider?” Note: Some banks said they have multiple primary providers DNB ASA picked Amazon and Microsoft largely because the Norwegian country’s watchdog approved of the company’s audit policies for cloud network security and because “they have a number of data centers in Europe and the Nordics,” says Alf Otterstad, the bank’s head of technology and services. Still, under President Trump’s Cloud Act, U.S. storage providers can be ordered to provide U.S. authorities information held on their servers no matter where that data are physically located. The U.S. companies say they’ll defend client privacy. Andreas Wodtke, a vice president for financial services at IBM Corp. who sells cloud services to banks in Austria, Germany, and Switzerland, says the U.S. company will resist demands for data from state agencies unless they’re made through internationally recognized channels such as mutual legal assistance treaties. By the end of 2020, the European coalition working to develop a viable local cloud network hopes to complete its first proof-of-concept testing. For now, though, the Continent’s banks remain unambiguously dependent on Seattle and Silicon Valley. “You hurt Germans with car tariffs or the French by taxing red wine,” says Heiko Gewald, a professor of information management at the Neu-Ulm University of Applied Sciences in southern Germany. “But if you want to hit Europe as a whole, then cloud is the way to go.” — With assistance by Boris Groendahl, and Sonia Sirletti

Amid all the carnage in global financial markets this week, almost no country has been hit harder than Brazil. The real dropped 3.2% even as the central bank stepped in to limit losses, extending a drop that made it the worst performing currency in the world this year. The Ibovespa stock gauge tumbled about 5% to put its year-to-date loss at 14%, also among the worst runs for any market this year.

President Donald Trump’s top economic adviser Friday admitted that the White House may need to roll out a series of steps to protect the U.S. economy from coronavirus fallout after days of playing down the potential risks. As financial markets plunged Friday morning, sending benchmark bond yields to record lows across the globe, Larry Kudlow said the administration was working on a limited policy response without giving many specifics.

Lebanon’s banks are looking into forming a committee that would handle negotiations with the government in case it announces a sovereign debt restructuring. The committee would represent local lenders in any future talks, according two people familiar with the plans who asked not to be identified because the discussions are private. The banks have also been approached by financial advisers, they said.

Orlando, Fla. (AP) -- The strongest field of the year at The Players Championship will be without the biggest draw in golf. Tiger Woods isn't playing.

Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Anglo American Platinum Ltd. shares headed for the biggest plunge in a decade after an explosion at a key processing plant forced the company to cut production estimates.

Expo 2020 Dubai, which is set to open in late October, remains “on track” in the face of the current coronavirus outbreak, according to the organizers. “We are consulting very closely with local authorities and the International Bureau of Expositions in Paris as the situation evolves,” a spokesperson said in an emailed statement. “All planning and preparations for Expo 2020 Dubai remain on track.”

Banco Santander SA said it will set a minimum standard for parental leave across all of its markets as Spain’s biggest lender creates conditions to help more women take on senior roles. Employees will get a minimum of 14 weeks paid leave for mothers and four weeks for the other parent across its global divisions, the bank said in an emailed statement. In practice that means an increase in the maternity leave currently offered by the bank in three markets for the primary parent and in six for the other parent.

President Donald Trump lashed out at the governor of Washington State -- where 13 people have died of the coronavirus -- calling him “a snake” during a press briefing on the illness. Trump’s remark, during a tour of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta on Friday, came a a day after the governor, Jay Inslee, had a cordial meeting with Vice President Mike Pence in Olympia, Washington, the state capital.

Preppy apparel retailer Gap Inc. has closed its New York City offices after a worker tested positive for the coronavirus. The person is not in the office, at 55 Thomas Street in Lower Manhattan, and is recovering at home, according to a memo sent to Gap workers at the location.

Washington (AP) -- The nation's capital has pop-up shops for food and drink, even marijuana. And now, coronavirus prevention supplies. As local stores sell out of masks and hand sanitizer, Adilisha Patrom, owner of a co-working and event space next to Gallaudet University, saw an opportunity and jumped on it.

Global cases of the novel coronavirus crossed 100,000 on Friday as the pathogen races around the world, infecting people on every continent except Antarctica and hobbling the global economy. The vast majority of cases -- more than 80,000 -- are still in China, where the virus emerged last December. But other nations from Italy to South Korea have emerged as secondary epicenters of infection. The outbreak has resulted in a slowdown of economic and social activity across the world, from flight cancellations to mass school closures.

Follow Bloomberg on  Telegram for all the investment news and analysis you need. A key indicator of Japan’s economic outlook fell to its lowest level since the global financial crisis, offering an early official sign that the coronavirus is pushing Japan’s economy into recession.

It’s ground zero for the coronavirus but China’s manufacturing and trade is rebounding, says the shipping firm that carries one in every eight containers from Asia to Europe and the U.S. Chinese production capacity “has shown signs of improvement since the end of February,” France’s CMA CGM, the world’s third-largest container shipping firm, said in an annual earnings report on Friday.

All inmates at New York’s Metropolitan Correctional Center must be screened for body temperatures before they are allowed to appear in court, the chief judge for federal courts in Manhattan ordered on Friday as authorities step up measures to limit exposure to the spreading coronavirus. Prisoners with temperatures of 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit or above will not be taken for court appearances, U.S. District Judge Colleen McMahon said. The notorious jail has been under heavy scrutiny since financier Jeffrey Epstein killed himself in his cell at the facility last August while awaiting trial on sex-trafficking charges.

The Norwegian military quarantined 1,300 personnel on a base in the northern part of the country after a case of coronavirus was confirmed among them. No one will be allowed in or out of the Skjold base in the Troms region after one person tested positive for the virus on Thursday, the Norwegian Armed Forces said in a statement. The infected person doesn’t have serious symptoms.

Harvey Weinstein’s prosecutor said the movie producer deserves a stiff prison sentence for his conviction on sexual assault and rape charges, saying he’s engaged in a series of “frighteningly similar” attacks upon women dating back to the 1970s. In a memo to the sentencing judge describing a “lifetime of abuse,”prosecutor Joan Illuzzi cited at least 16 alleged rapes and sexual assaults by the producer that aren’t part of the case. Illuzzi didn’t recommend a specific prison term but asked the judge to consider the defendant’s “history of misconduct.”

Follow us  @middleeast for more news on the region. Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas declared a 30-day state of emergency in Palestinian areas of the West Bank after his government found seven people infected with coronavirus.

Inflation in Russia edged closer to the lowest level in post-Soviet history, increasing the likelihood of a seventh consecutive interest rate cut later this month despite market volatility. Annual inflation eased to 2.3% in February, the Federal Statistics Service reported Friday. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 21 economists had forecast 2.2%.

Vietnam’s prolonged drought, coupled with an extensive buildup of salinity, have driven five provinces in the country’s rice bowl to declare a state of emergency. “This year’s drought and salinity have been way more devastating than what we saw four years ago,” said Nguyen Thien Phap, head of the water resources department in Tien Giang, one of the provinces that announced the emergency in the Mekong Delta.

Want the lowdown on European markets? In your inbox before the open, every day. Sign up here. German factories saw a rebound in demand just before China became engulfed by the coronavirus outbreak that has since spread across the globe.

A growing number of states are requiring health insurers to waive copays and other out-of-pocket expenses for coronavirus testing to make sure family budgetary challenges don’t slow efforts to control the outbreak. “States are looking for ways to encourage people to get the care they need,” Kevin Lucia, co-director of the Center on Health Insurance Reforms at Georgetown University, said Friday. He expects more states to follow the lead of those that have already imposed coronavirus-related requirements on insurers.

Even the world’s top infectious-disease specialists still aren’t sure how lethal a threat the coronavirus presents. World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said this week that the new virus has killed about 3.4% of those diagnosed, a chilling mortality upgrade that far eclipses seasonal flu’s death toll.

Europe’s corporate debt risk gauges soared on Friday afternoon as credit markets reacted to the slump in global stocks and the spike in bond prices. The Markit iTraxx Europe Crossover index of credit-default swaps on high-yield companies rose 80.3 basis points to 384, its highest level since June 2016. The cost of insuring senior financial debt also rocketed, up 16 points in its biggest move in almost two years. Elsewhere, secondary prices for European leveraged loans fell to their lowest level since July 2016.

President Donald Trump will visit the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta on Friday, a trip that initially was canceled because of concern that someone at the agency may have contracted the coronavirus. The president will stop at the CDC before he goes to his Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach, Florida, for the weekend according to a revised White House schedule. Trump is first traveling to Nashville, where he said he’ll meet with the governor of Tennessee.

Anxiety about an emerging liquidity crunch is roiling global bond markets. A key gauge of banking-sector risk, known as the FRA/OIS spread, soared to its highest level in almost two years, while dollar swap spreads widened, suggesting stresses in U.S. markets are becoming increasingly severe. Here are five charts to watch for further angst:

Want the lowdown on European markets? In your inbox before the open, every day. Sign up here. A group of U.K. North Sea oil and natural gas producers face an ambitious government-mandated target to cut their emissions as soon as 2025 as the nation seeks to make more real its ambition for net-zero fossil fuel pollution by the middle of the century.

The worldwide worry over coronavirus creates a glimmer of good news for at least one segment of the U.S. population: the top 0.1%. The super-wealthy can deploy sophisticated strategies to pass on billions of dollars to their descendants tax-free. Plunging interest rates, combined with lower stock prices, make it even easier to protect those fortunes from the Internal Revenue Service.

President Donald Trump signed a $7.8 billion emergency coronavirus spending bill on Friday after the number of infections continued to rise and stocks tumbled. The amount of money provided in the legislation far exceeds Trump’s original request -- $1.25 billion in new funds and another $1.25 billion from other government social and health programs. Lawmakers said they expect Congress will have to provide more emergency funding before the virus outbreak subsides.

The push to develop vaccines against the new coronavirus will be in jeopardy without almost $2 billion in additional funding, according to the group coordinating the global effort. The Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations needs $375 million by the end of March to support trials and efforts to expand global manufacturing capacity, according to a statement Friday, and another $1.55 billion will be required by 2021. The Oslo-based group said it’s already committed $100 million of its own funds to get experimental vaccines ready for early human trials.

A court in Istanbul ordered the arrest of Baris Pehlivan, the editor-in-chief of the OdaTV website, for disclosing the identity of an intelligence officer allegedly killed in Libya, state-run Anadolu Agency reported. Access to the website has also been cut. The arrest order came after the court jailed two other OdaTV journalists, Baris Terkoglu and Hulya Kilinc. The website carried a story about the officer’s funeral in the western city of Manisa, which included photos. Turkey’s Information and Communication Technologies Authority banned access to OdaTV’s website.

The Federal Reserve and several other central banks swung into action this week with rate cuts aimed at mollifying the economic fallout from the coronavirus. Amid the whipsaw in financial markets, U.S. jobs figures showed an economy with plenty of juice prior to a heightening of concerns about the virus. While China’s economy is beginning to stir again, data on coal consumption show production is still fragile.































































Want to receive this post in your inbox every day? Sign up for the Balance of Power newsletter, and follow Bloomberg Politics on Twitter and Facebook for more. For a leader who once said France wanted its president to be God-like, who announced himself with Beethoven’s Ode to Joy on election night, Emmanuel Macron has been unusually low-key during the coronavirus pandemic.And yet the outbreak is wreaking havoc with both his global and domestic agenda to the point it's raising the question — where does he go from here?As Ania Nussbaum reports, Macron’s political capital was already clipped by the Yellow Vest protests against his economic policies that gripped France for months.In Europe his hectoring of neighbors over various issues, including his attacks on NATO, have worn thin. Globally he failed in his bids to bring U.S. President Donald Trump back to the table on the Iran nuclear accord and Paris climate agreement.

The evening I found out Ahmaud Arbery was killed, I fried whiting fish in the air fryer, and I can’t lie, it was damn good. So good that I had to have two Hawaiian sweet dinner rolls to complement the meal along with the broccoli and cauliflower. Afterwards, I felt I might have overdone it a bit so I decided I’d take a walk. By this time, it’s 9 p.m. I walked to my front door, and told my fiancée that I’d be back soon. She said OK, with a tinge of trepidation — just enough to snap me back into reality. I was reminded that I live in America, in a nice neighborhood, and that I am a large negro. My mind flooded with scenarios of everything that could go wrong on my walk, based on everything that had gone wrong for others like me. Others whose nights I imagine began as innocently as my own. Just when I thought that I had become desensitized to racial violence, the death of Arbery had struck me to my core. Arbery, 25, was shot twice while out for a jog by Travis McMichael, who with father Gregory, chased Arbery in a pickup truck. Gregory told the police that he thought he looked like a man suspected in neighborhood break-ins. There was no way for me to rationalize in the slightest why he was murdered. Arbery’s killing, which happened while he was doing something so seemingly routine — jogging — had me unwittingly fearful of exercising one of the most basic of human rights, the right to simply exist. While I absolutely have routines that I run through as a black man —  i.e. my “police protocol,” my “workforce protocol,” etc.  — prior to what happened with Arbery, I did not run through a checklist for something as benign as taking a walk in my neighborhood. Still, on this particular evening, I grabbed my photo ID and my credit card, just in case. But my ID still had my permanent address in Richmond, Virginia, and I’m in Fredericksburg. That wouldn’t help me. I grabbed the water bill to prove that I live in this neighborhood. I headed back towards the door, only to catch a glimpse of myself in the hall mirror. I probably didn’t look like I lived in this neighborhood. Back upstairs I went. Almost by muscle memory, I threw on a University of Virginia hoodie and a U.Va. hat. Even racists love U.Va., or its home of Charlottesville at least. I contemplated throwing on my U.Va. Law hoodie but feared it may have been too much. Would someone feel intimidated and use that as provocation? My anger began rising. “It’s just a walk!” I told myself as I left the closet clad in orange and blue. But it wasn’t. For the first time, I had to admit to myself that I may have been suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)-like symptoms related to the unfettered onslaught of violence against African Americans in America. I released a deep breath and walked toward the front door, which felt like a precipice. I walked through, now properly garbed, music blaring into my headphones. I paused on the front step. What if someone is yelling for me to stop and I don’t hear them? I left one earbud dangling. It’s safer anyway.  It’s now 9:15 p.m. Confronting the cool air outside, I reached up to pull on my hoodie, then thought better of it. As I walked, I mentally rehearsed the script of what I would say if I was stopped by a police officer or an overzealous neighborhood watchman questioning my whereabouts. When I arrived back home, I found solace in the fact that of the 200 calories that I had spent on those two rolls, I’d burned 194, and I smiled. But it only papered over the sadness I felt thinking about the world my children will inherit. While I have exposed them to the reality of how the world will treat them as African American children, it is always under the guise that we are trending toward a better and brighter tomorrow. But as the deaths mount, it has become increasingly hard to shield them from the trauma that accompanies. I fear that they too will one day struggle with the PTSD that I am just now admitting I suffer.   As the son of an Army man who served in the 82nd Airborne during Vietnam, I don’t use the term PTSD term lightly. I’ve heard the stories and seen the look in my father’s eyes and I know what trauma looks like, which is why I can recognize its effects on my actions. Those with PTSD, according to the American Psychiatric Association, continue to have “intense, disturbing thoughts and feelings” related to their experience of witnessing a trauma well after the event has ended. They can also feel sadness, fear, or anger; they may feel “detached or estranged from other people,” and may be easily startled or have strong negative reactions to loud noise or an accidental touch. Many African Americans live in a constant state of trauma, brought on by the high levels of generational violence in their communities, the seemingly endless stream of controversial encounters between law enforcement and unarmed African Americans citizens, the subtle and overt racism experienced daily, and now the rise in what can only be considered vigilantism veiled in loosely interpreted laws.   Through this trauma, African Americans have developed a list of unspoken rules on how to simply exist, learned by verdicts meted out by a legal system that continually fails at what most would consider justice and evidenced by a myriad of hashtags forged in fear. We’ve learned that: We can’t relax in the comfort of our own homes (#BothemJean and #AtatianaJefferson). We can't ask for help after being in a car crash (#JonathanFerrell and #RenishaMcBride). We can’t sell CD's (#AltonSterling). We can’t sleep (#AiyanaJones). We can’t go to church (#Charleston9). We can’t get a normal traffic ticket (#SandraBland). We can’t lawfully carry a weapon (#PhilandoCastile). We can’t shop at Walmart (#JohnCrawford). We can’t ask a cop a question (#RandyEvans). We can’t cash our check in peace (#YvonneSmallwood). We can’t run (#WalterScott). We can’t breathe (#EricGarner). We can’t live (#FreddieGray). We can’t exist. No wrongful death can be condoned, but for many, a vigilante killing like Arbery’s without the cloak of authority provided to law enforcement has inched us perilously close to a tipping point. Many are still reeling from the shooting death of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin. Police initially declined to arrest his killer George Zimmerman under Florida’s “stand your ground” law. Now, eight years later, Arbery was shot and killed by a white man in Brunswick, Georgia, on Feb. 23 — three days before the anniversary of the 2012 killing of Trayvon Martin. The shooter and his father were arrested only after several months of protests and the release of a video depicting the shooting. And now, we can’t go jogging (#AhmaudArbery). While many have taken to the Childish Gambino view of America, myself included, one never knows what will trigger someone exposed to consistent trauma. I am far more affected than I could have imagined. What if that were me? Have I lived a life such that even without video evidence, my character will have shone through if I am gunned down? If a 43-year-old black man educated at an elite law school carries such a mental load when he exercises the most basic of his freedoms, then what kind of trauma must those who are less socially and financially secure experience? We suffer from trauma and Ahmaud Arbery has reminded us that still, we wear the mask.

There’s burnout, and then there’s  pandemic-induced burnout. For many workers, the professional environment has changed radically since Covid-19 disrupted life—but the intensity of their jobs hasn’t. Juggling full-time responsibilities, family life, and the stress of confinement makes the risk of burnout greater than ever. Digital anthropologist and author Rahaf Harfoush, whose book Hustle & Float: Reclaim Your Creativity and Thrive in a World Obsessed With Work investigated the epidemic of burnout, says solutions must go beyond treating symptoms such as exhaustion and anxiety. Instead of merely prescribing rest, exercise, and healthful eating, she says it’s time to deconstruct the underlying cultural sources of burnout and do something radical: Work less. Here, she explains how. Since the Industrial Revolution, the dominant philosophy of work has centered around productivity as the only metric that’s important for success. As work culture developed, we’ve internalized the idea that any time that isn’t spent doing something is wasted time. Worse, we’ve been made to believe that if we aren’t struggling and hustling, we don’t deserve our success. And now, our relationship to work has become tied to our sense of self and self-worth. But this ideology runs counter to scientific research that says that in order for knowledge workers to do their best work, they need space and unstructured time. The structure upon which we’ve built our work expectations has been hurting us for a long time. When you combine our culture of chronic overwork with the distraction inherent to technology and social media, at a time when people are forced to stay at home, you have a recipe for amplified anxiety and shame. This puts people on a fast-track to burnout. We have to build a system of work that reflects how our brains actually function and what our creativity needs. That begins with incorporating recovery into the process of work. You can’t be innovative if you’re not creative, and you can’t be creative if you’re stressed, exhausted, distracted, or sleep-deprived. Resting doesn’t mean diverting from your goals but rather making it possible to achieve them. I’m not saying don’t hustle. I’m saying, whether it’s a pandemic or not, it’s crucial to recover hard when you play hard. This isn’t a normal time, so it shouldn’t be treated as normal work-from-home time. The lines between home and work, personal and professional, are blurred with an additional pressure to be productive since the thinking is that we all suddenly have more available time. This isn’t the case, and furthermore, working nonstop simply doesn’t work. We have turned busyness into a coping mechanism. Now, people are applying that to their personal time while sheltering at home, filling it with back-to-back Zoom calls, baking, workouts, and more activity. It’s important to use some of this time to process our emotions and reflect on the discomfort from all this productivity propaganda. Operating as usual will not only negatively affect your work but could compromise your health. There are steps we can all take. For example, take 30 minutes to eat lunch without stimulation: no email, no Slack, no distraction. You can even start with 15 minutes! It’s up to us to carve out periods of time to give our cognitive capabilities the chance to unwind. Then consider managing up: Workers can be explicit in asking for expectations from their managers. Move from unspoken rules to written guidelines so everyone understands how to navigate this period of working from home. Start by paying attention to discomfort. If you’re feeling restless, anxious, or guilty, sit with it and start to dig deep to understand what’s behind it. We have to give ourselves the time to shift from a more-is-better approach to internalizing the idea that recovery is as valuable as the work. No one can do that for us. Put recovery time in your calendar and stick to it. If you don’t, force yourself to write down why you didn’t. The real exercise in moving past work devotion and burnout is in understanding why we’re not giving ourselves that time. It isn’t due to a lack of knowledge. I would also suggest timing your tasks to understand how much time you really need. This will allow you to make realistic to-do lists and avoid feeling overwhelmed. Remember: We are constrained by time, and yet we overestimate our self-expectations constantly. This is something that can be fixed. If you’re a high performer and recovery isn’t an intentional and strategic part of your time and workflow, you’re only damaging your output in the long run.

Chesapeake Energy Corp. discarded its full-year outlook, wrote down the value of $8.5 billion in assets and revived concerns one of the biggest U.S. natural gas suppliers is on the verge of financial collapse. The Oklahoma City driller hired strategic advisers and may seek Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection as Covid-19 lockdowns slashed energy demand and triggered a record quarterly loss, the company said Monday in a federal filing.

Democrats and Republicans see the coronavirus threat in starkly different terms, with Democrats more likely to have been personally affected by the pandemic and Republicans more confident of a return to normalcy. The differences, revealed in a new poll from Monmouth University Monday, shed light on the political ramifications of the virus but also show how voters see the world in starkly different terms.

A Ugandan court agreed on bail for a former security minister seeking to unseat President Yoweri Museveni who has been detained for two months on charges of treason and the unlawful possession of firearms. Retired Lieutenant General Henry Tumukunde was granted bail by the High Court Criminal Division in Kampala, judiciary spokesman Solomon Muyita said by phone. His initial request nearly a month ago was rejected.

Serbian politicians launched dueling hunger strikes after a protest over next month’s parliamentary elections turned violent. The Balkan state’s biggest opposition parties have vowed to boycott the June 21 vote, accusing President Aleksandar Vucic of muzzling media and wielding state institutions to prevent free elections. Tens of thousands of Serbs have held months of demonstrations, including nightly noise protests from balconies in one of Europe’s strictest virus lockdown regimes.

Avianca Holdings SA expects the Colombian government to play a key role in its restructuring efforts after widespread travel bans forced it to declare bankruptcy, according to court documents. Latin America’s second-largest air carrier, which filed for Chapter 11 protection Sunday, said that due to its importance in the Colombian domestic air travel network, the government “may be one of the key stakeholders” as it reorganizes. The governments of El Salvador, Ecuador, and, potentially, Peru, may also play a role, Chief Financial Officer Adrian Neuhauser wrote in a declaration to the court, without elaborating on the type of aid it expects.

As Shanghai Disneyland opened Monday for the first time since late January, Walt Disney Co.’s hit song “A Whole New World” played in the background. And it was a very different world for guests required to stay 6 feet (2 meters) apart in lines, wear masks and climb aboard rides half-empty to provide the space needed to prevent possible spread of the coronavirus.

Sign up to receive the Green Daily newsletter in your inbox every weekday. Climate scientists have previously warned that a lethal combination of heat and humidity will make currently inhabited parts of the planet uninhabitable for months at a time in the decades to come. New research finds that future is now.

San Cristobal, Ecuador (AP) -- Before the coronavirus, sudden life-threatening ailments among tourists, fishermen and others on the Galapagos Islands were considered so rare that hospitals didn’t have a single intensive care unit bed. Now, officials are racing to equip medical teams on the remote islands with breathing machines while also trying to stanch an economic crisis that has left many of the 30,000 residents jobless.

Stage Stores Inc., the owner of rural department and discount stores including Goody’s, Peebles and Gordmans, filed for bankruptcy protection, adding to the toll of traditional retailers felled by too much debt and the economic shocks of the coronavirus. The retailer will simultaneously seek buyers for parts or all of its business while it also begins to wind down operations, Stage Stores said in a statement late Sunday. It will start reopening stores that have been closed by the pandemic, with about 557 outlets scheduled to open May 15 to conduct liquidation sales.

Brazil President Jair Bolsonaro criticized lockdown measures implemented by state governors even as the number of coronavirus cases and related deaths showed no signs of slowing down. Bolsonaro said he will add more job categories to those deemed essential on Monday in efforts to get citizens back to work, clashing with state government plans to toughen restrictions on movement and commerce. “Since they don’t want to open, we will,” Bolsonaro said on Sunday.

Australia can benefit from its abundance of cheap wind and solar power generation to arrest decades of decline in its steel-making industry. Harnessing the nation’s iron ore resources and using hydrogen produced by renewable power, Australia could capture about 6.5% of the global steel market, generate about A$65 billion ($43 billion) in annual export revenue and create tens of thousands of manufacturing jobs, the Grattan Institute policy think tank said in a report on Monday. The so-called green steel would also cut the need for polluting metallurgical coal.

Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. The rapid spread of coronavirus in Belarus made it unjustifiable to organize the kind of mass gatherings that were held over the weekend, the World Health Organization said.

Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. Kazakhstan ended the state of emergency declared to fight the spread of coronavirus, with the central Asian nation’s leader pledging to protect the currency and urging more lending to stimulate the economy.

Two or three Republican senators are “just about committed” to supporting a $500 billion stimulus bill that would send money to states and counties hammered by the economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic, said U.S. Senator Bob Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat. Menendez, who is cosponsoring the bill with Senator Bill Cassidy, a Republican from Louisiana, said the additional GOP senators would be ready to commit to the proposal by the end of this week. And there’s “a lot of momentum” in the House of Representatives, Menendez said at a news conference in Trenton.

Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. Germany recorded the smallest number of new coronavirus infections in six days, as the country moves ahead with a broad easing of restrictions put in place to fight the disease.

The Philippines expects 45,000 overseas workers to return home in May and June, adding to the 26,700 that have already been repatriated after losing their jobs due to the pandemic. Filipinos working abroad in cruise ships, hotels, restaurants and retail establishments have been the hardest hit, while the construction sector is starting to report some job losses, Overseas Workers Welfare administrator Hans Cacdac said in a live-streamed press briefing.

President Donald Trump’s re-election effort raised $61.7 million in April, narrowly topping Joe Biden and the Democratic National Committee in the first full month of lockdown fundraising. “While day-to-day life may have slowed this past month, enthusiasm and support for this president has not,” Ronna McDaniel, chairwoman of the Republican National Committee, said in a statement. The combined total raised by Trump, the RNC and their supporting committees was just shy of their $63 million haul in March.

Bank of Japan board members are increasingly concerned that Japan could slip back into deflation, according to a summary of viewpoints from the April policy meeting. Deflation featured three times in the opinion summary, compared with no mention of the word in March. As recently as the January meeting, when the huge scale of the coronavirus pandemic was unknown, one member was still ruling out any return of deflation.

Central bankers who are used to forecasting the economy’s trajectory in simple ranges are now resorting to scenario projections, underlining just how difficult it remains to pin down the impact of the coronavirus pandemic. The Reserve Bank of Australia is one of several global central banks that have offered alternative outlooks: a base, upside or downside case, depending where unemployment hits. The Bank of England is publishing projections based on a possible scenario, without committing to formal forecasts.

Texas said its court system has been hit by a ransomware attack.  The state said the attack was discovered Friday and that it’s not going to paying ransom. The Office of Court Administration said that filings and research are still available and there was no indication any personal information was compromised.The “branch network” was disabled, including websites and servers, in response to the attack.

Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. A 102-year-old Icelandic woman who survived the Spanish flu has recovered from Covid-19, according to a United Nations report.

Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. Dignity Plc said spending on funerals has slumped due to U.K. social distancing measures introduced to counter the Covid-19 pandemic.

New Zealand’s central bank will mark the first anniversary of its new Monetary Policy Committee amid an unprecedented crisis, with policy makers under pressure to deliver massive additional stimulus. The MPC is tipped to almost double the Reserve Bank’s quantitative easing program to as much as NZ$60 billion ($37 billion) and, having already slashed the official cash rate to 0.25%, will face scrutiny over whether to take it negative.

French biotech Genfit plunged after falling short in the race to develop a drug for a disease lurking undetected in tens of millions of people struggling with obesity and diabetes. Preliminary data reported on Monday pointed to a failure of Genfit’s elafibranor drug in a crucial late-stage trial. The stock fell as much as 75% in Paris trading, reaching its lowest level in almost seven years and giving the company a market value of 246 million euros ($266 million).

Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. Russian President Vladimir Putin ended his national stay-at-home restrictions against the coronavirus after six weeks, while putting responsibility for easing the measures on regional leaders, even as the number of infections in Russia surges past most European countries.

Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. France plans to attach strings to any injection of public money into its crisis-hit automotive industry, with the repatriation of manufacturing a top priority.

Roche Holding AG hired Aviv Regev, a computational and systems biologist who’s faculty chair of the Harvard University-affiliated Broad Institute, to lead its Genentech research unit. Regev’s work reflects how technology has transformed the way drugs are developed. A biologist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which is also linked to the Broad Institute, she developed assays that allow scientists to decipher sequences of RNA, the chemical negative of DNA, in single cells. Machine learning algorithms she helped develop allow scientists to make sense of the information the sequences yield.

Indonesia is finalizing a $1 billion financial bailout plan for its flag carrier to help it stave off a debt default after the coronavirus crisis forced the airline to ground most of its planes. The rescue plan includes a proposal to restructure PT Garuda Indonesia’s $500 million sukuk due next month and arrange new bridge loans of as much as $500 million to meet working capital requirements for three to six months, Deputy State-Owned Enterprises Minister Kartika Wirjoatmodjo said.

A lot of ink has been spilled over Bitcoin’s halving, with crypto luminaries the world over taking sides on how much it will affect the token’s price. Will it push Bitcoin higher or does its anticipatory nature necessitate much has been priced in? To Zhao “CZ” Changpeng, chief executive officer of Binance Holdings Ltd., the world’s largest spot crypto exchange by volume, it’s a no-brainer. “The halving should be very positive for the crypto industry,” said Zhao in an interview from Singapore, citing historical precedent.

Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. African finance ministers started talks with private creditors to find a way to temporarily suspend debt payments without triggering defaults.

Goldman Sachs Asset Management is moving deeper into the nascent business of offering ETFs that partially conceal holdings, adding Fidelity to its roster of service partners. GSAM agreed to license Fidelity’s methodology to create actively managed, semi-transparent exchange-traded funds, the asset manager said in a statement Monday. In January, GSAM filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a multi-asset ETF using the so-called ActiveShares model from Precidian Investments.

Cryptocurrency-focused hedge funds’ assets under management jumped in 2019, according to a new survey, but there were some big differences in performance during the year. Total AUM of crypto funds rose to more than $2 billion at the end of last year from $1 billion at the end of 2018, and the average per fund jumped to $44 million from $21.9 million, according to a survey from PwC and Elwood Asset Management Services Ltd., an investment firm specializing in digital assets. Of course, that was in a year where the price of Bitcoin soared 95%.

Several vaccines will likely be needed to combat the coronavirus and immunize groups of people in America and abroad, U.S. National Institutes of Health Director Francis Collins said in an interview. Collins, 70, is a physician and geneticist who leads the agency overseeing the U.S. research response to the pandemic. He discussed efforts to develop and manufacture a vaccine, potential mutations and what they mean for immunity, and how inoculations would be tested.

U.S. airlines are grappling with one outcome of the deep schedule cuts they’ve made in response to near-zero travel demand: Many of the flights that remain are starting to fill up, complicating social distancing guidelines and angering some passengers. While carrier traffic is still down about 90% from typical levels, not everyone has stopped flying. More than 215,000 people traversed U.S. security checkpoints on May 8, the highest total since March 25, according to the Transportation Security Administration.

Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. Commerzbank AG abandoned its planned sale of Polish subsidiary mBank SA, saying the coronavirus outbreak has made it impossible to attract a worthwhile offer.

California Resources Corp. warned it may not be able to stay in business if it can’t repair its balance sheet amid the worst crude-market crash in history. California’s biggest oil producer will delay submitting its quarterly report to regulators until next month and ditched its guidance for the rest of this year because of the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic, the company said Monday in a filing. Tumbling demand for its crude forced the company to shut in the equivalent of 5,000 barrels a day of oil production.

JPMorgan Asset Management is betting that some Asian technology shares could double in value in three to five years as the global pandemic makes working and playing online a force of habit. “We are still finding most of these tech names to be offering 15% and 25% annualized expected return on a five-year view,” said Mark Davids, co-manager of the JPMorgan Asia Growth Fund. The technology “trends that existed prior to the coronavirus have been accelerated,” he added.

Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. The U.K. would continue to pay workers’ wages to protect jobs until the end of September, under plans being considered by officials, people familiar with the matter said.

Scott Minerd, the chief investment officer of Guggenheim Investments, thinks that government support of corporate America in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic will ultimately lead to the creation of a “new moral obligation” to help U.S. companies access credit. “Corporate borrowers are most likely on the way to becoming something akin to government-sponsored enterprises like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac,” he wrote in a note dated May 10. “Many companies, including Boeing, Southwest, and Hyatt Hotels, have likely gained access to financing simply on the strength of the government’s intentions to intervene in credit markets.”

Czech billionaire Daniel Kretinsky took a stake in Macy’s Inc. and plans to engage management on ways to improve performance of the struggling U.S. retailer. Kretinsky’s Vesa Equity Investment amassed a 5% holding in Macy’s for strategic investment purposes, according to a securities filing. The purchase makes him one of the company’s top five shareholders, according to Bloomberg data.

The scions of two of Kenya’s most powerful families agreed to unite their political parties and made appointments that further sideline Vice President William Ruto. President Uhuru Kenyatta’s ruling Jubilee Party will form a coalition with the Kenya African National Union, headed by Gideon Moi. The men are the sons of Kenya’s first two rulers -- Jomo Kenyatta and Daniel Arap Moi -- who’s led East Africa’s biggest economy for almost four decades.

India is considering allowing some domestic flights to resume on May 18 or earlier as the government looks to reopen a key part of the economy and provide relief to airlines, which haven’t been able to fly since March because of a nationwide lockdown, according to people familiar with the matter. The Ministry of Civil Aviation is in talks with airlines, travel agents and the federal home ministry about the move, the people said, asking not to be identified because the deliberations aren’t public. A decision may come Monday, they said, adding that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is meeting with state chief ministers this afternoon.

Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. New Zealand will begin to exit its seven-week lockdown this week after halting the spread of the coronavirus.

Chile is ditching plans to pioneer a system of immunity cards for those who’ve recovered from Covid-19 following warnings it could fuel discrimination -- and more infection. The system, which would have been the first of its type in the world, was officially halted for one of the very reasons it was initially considered -- to avoid creating a two-tier jobs market, Health Minister Jaime Manalich said on Sunday.

Argentina’s bondholders need to present a reasonable counteroffer to avoid another debt default by the South American nation, according to Nobel laureate economist Joseph Stiglitz. The Columbia University professor, who has mentored Argentina’s Economy Minister Martin Guzman, praised the government of President Alberto Fernandez for coming up with a plan that would put the country’s debt on a sustainable path. He also warned that creditors may undermine trust in international debt markets by “playing hardball” amid a global pandemic.

Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is backing a real estate firm to buy commercial real estate loans that are hit by the pandemic. Directed Capital is seeking to acquire as much as $600 million of debt tied to everything from retail to senior housing and hospitality properties. The St. Petersburg, Florida-based firm has received a combined $60 million in financing from Goldman Sachs and Valley National Bancorp for its current round of fund-raising.

Canada unveiled a loan program for large firms that have been hit by Covid-19 and can’t get financing by conventional means. The Large Employer Emergency Financing Facility is for companies and non-profit organizations with annual revenue of C$300 million ($214 million) or more.

Novavax Inc. rallied 20% in after hours trading on Monday after its experimental vaccine for the pandemic sweeping across the globe got a major infusion of cash. The Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, which is funding multiple coronavirus vaccine projects, has awarded Novavax another $384 million in new funding. That’s on top of $4 million the Oslo-based organization invested in the biotechnology company in March and is CEPI’s single largest investment to date.

George Soros has a $66 million stake in DraftKings Inc., one of several big-name investors to receive shares in the sports-betting company through a deal that took it public last month. Quantum Partners, an investment vehicle run by  Soros Fund Management, holds 2.7 million DraftKings Class A shares, according to a filing last week with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. A spokesman declined to comment on behalf of Soros Fund Management, which oversees investments on behalf of the 89-year-old philanthropist and his family.

Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. The Spanish government is pushing for a European-wide response to shore up the airline industry so that carriers face a “level playing field,” according to the country’s economy minister.

The coronavirus crisis is likely to bring an end to a 30-year run of disinflationary forces and herald the return of accelerating inflationary pressure that’s likely to overshoot central bank targets, Morgan Stanley said. “For the first time in a decade, we are finally getting coordinated monetary and fiscal easing -- a policy dynamic that we have viewed as essential to get out of the low-growth, low-inflation loop,” Chetan Ahya, chief economist and global head of economics at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a research report. “The scale of easing is also unprecedented during peace time.”

Brookfield Asset Management Inc. and Indian aviation tycoon Rahul Bhatia are considering bids for Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd., joining a score of suitors seeking to capitalize on Asia’s first airline casualty from the coronavirus pandemic, people with knowledge of the matter said. The Canadian investment firm, which manages more than $540 billion, is planning to make its own indicative offer before the end of this week, according to the people. Brookfield could team up with other bidders later in the process, one of the people said, asking not to be identified because the information is private.

Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. Saudi Arabia’s Finance Minister Mohammed Al-Jadaan says the $26.6 billion measures announced early on Monday are aimed at helping put public finances in a position to support the economy as it emerges from lockdown.

The Trump administration on Monday approved the largest solar installation in U.S. history, giving its blessing to a Berkshire Hathaway Inc. subsidiary’s 690-megawatt project just north of Las Vegas. When finished, NV Energy’s estimated $1 billion Gemini Solar Project is set to become the eighth-largest solar power facility in the world, spanning some 7,100 acres (2873 hectares) of federal land and generating enough electricity to power 260,000 homes in the region. The current record for a solar plant is 579 megawatts.

Venezuelan opposition leader Juan Guaido accepted the resignation of two aides, one of whom said he’d been in contact with former U.S. Green Beret Jordan Goudreau, who took responsibility for leading a botched raid in Venezuela. Juan Jose Rendon, Guaido’s commissioner for general strategy, and Sergio Vergara, commissioner for crisis management and member of the National Assembly, presented their resignation. “Juan Guaido accepted the resignation of the officials and thanked them for their dedication and commitment to Venezuela,” according to a statement from Guaido’ office. More than 50 nations recognize the opposition leader and the National Assembly’s president as Venezuela’s legitimate leader.

The green shoots of recovery for home prices in London’s wealthiest districts have been stamped out before they even took hold. Prices in prime central London dropped 0.3% between March and April, taking the annual decline to 1.3%, according to a report published Monday by broker Knight Frank. It’s the first time in more than a year that the annual rate has accelerated, erasing early signs that the market was bottoming out after last year’s fraught Brexit negotiations.

Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. Abu Dhabi, the oil-rich capital of the United Arab Emirates, started offering a 20% refund on the annual rental value of their commercial property leases of restaurants as well as tourism and entertainment facilities.

Chinese stocks linked to movies rallied after the government allowed reopening cinema halls that have been shut for almost four months in the fight to contain the coronavirus outbreak. Entertainment and leisure facilities such as parks, tourist attractions, museums and theaters can reopen provided they take measures such as limiting attendance to control crowds, according to a guideline issued by China’s State Council on May 8.

Credit Suisse Group AG is set to price its first green bond, two years after outlining plans for a debut sale via a different part of the business. The Swiss bank’s London branch will issue the 500 million-euro ($540 million) five-year bond, after getting more then 2.8 billion euros of orders. In March 2018, the bank held a roadshow for a green-bond sale by its holding company, which wasn’t subsequently followed by an offering.

Welcome to Monday, Americas. Here’s the latest news and analysis from Bloomberg Economics to help you start the day:

Follow Bloomberg on LINE messenger for all the business news and analysis you need. Vietnam assured it will deliver 400,000 metric tons of rice to the Philippines after it decided to resume exports to Southeast Asian countries starting May 1.

Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said he sent the Federal Reserve money from a $454 billion coronavirus rescue package to begin lending to U.S. corporations. Mnuchin’s team has worked with the central bank since the end of March to launch four out of nine lending programs backstopped by Treasury Department funds that were allocated as part of Congress’s $2.2 trillion virus-relief package.

Bloomberg’s daily technology newsletter is chronicling the impact of Covid-19 on the global tech industry. Sign up here. Twitter Inc. will now label some misinformation related to Covid-19 that it deems confusing or misleading, increasing the likelihood that more tweets will be marked or taken down.

While the global oil market remains in a dire situation, it’s starting to look like the nightmare scenario envisioned for the past month might just be averted. The industry feared a flood of unwanted crude would overwhelm the world’s storage tanks as fuel demand was shattered by the coronavirus. Once that “storage wall” was hit, producers would be forced into a chaotic wave of potentially damaging shut-ins at oil wells.

China’s credit provision in April was stronger than the same period in recent years, signaling the central bank’s credit easing policy is helping revive domestic demand.

Some drillers in the biggest North American oil field are reopening wells shut in response to the pandemic-driven price collapse, according to pipeline giant Energy Transfer LP. In the Permian Basin’s Midland region, about 8% of oil volumes that feed Energy Transfer’s pipe network had been shut at the start of the month, Mackie McCrea, the company’s chief commercial officer, said during a conference call on Monday.

Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. Singapore is calling for people to perform nasal swabs and take blood as it ramps up coronavirus testing amid a jump in infections in the city-state.

ICICI Securities Ltd., India’s largest listed brokerage, is looking at jobs that could be completely moved to a work-from-home model as the coronavirus pandemic forces businesses to re-imagine workplaces. “We have just about 20% of people coming to the office now so it is possible,” Vijay Chandok, the firm’s chief executive officer, said in a phone interview. “We are thinking very seriously of examining the types of roles and jobs that can become long-term work-from-home.”

India equities closed lower as investors weighed the risk of seeing the coronavirus spreading faster with the country easing its lockdown. Stocks had rallied earlier in the day on expectations of a bigger fiscal stimulus following an increase in the government’s borrowing target. The S&P BSE Sensex was down 0.3% to 31,561.2 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai, while the NSE Nifty 50 Index slipped 0.1%.

Ontario is trending in the right direction in its battle against the coronavirus epidemic, reporting the lowest number of new cases in six weeks, the province’s premier said. “There are many reasons to be optimistic,” Doug Ford said at a news conference in Toronto. Ontario recorded 294 new cases on Sunday and 308 cases Monday. Total deaths in the province stood at 1,669. “These numbers are a good sign.”

Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. The European Commission may stop advance inspection of European government funding for some EU research and regional aid programs as it tries to tackle criticism that the scrutiny holds up necessary public investments.

Asahi Group Holdings Ltd. withdrew its earnings outlook for the current fiscal year, hit by the impact of economic shutdowns due to the coronavirus in the Japanese beermaker’s overseas business and the domestic market. The brewer of “Super Dry” beer said measures taken to prevent the coronavirus’s spread has created too much uncertainty to quantify a business impact, but it aimed to release its new forecast by the end of the second quarter and would keep its annual dividend.

Business leaders are ratcheting up pressure on South African President Cyril Ramaphosa to reopen the economy more swiftly, warning that the devastation wreaked by a lockdown aimed at curbing the spread of the coronavirus could exceed damage caused by the pandemic itself. Africa’s most industrialized economy was brought to a near halt on March 27 as the government sought to prevent a surge of infections swamping an already overburdened health system. Some curbs were eased on May 1 and limited commerce has resumed, but the authorities have indicated that the reopening process could span six to eight months.

The Federal Emergency Management Agency is handing over some of its responsibilities for acquiring Covid-19 supplies to the Defense Logistics Agency, a subset of the Defense Department, a FEMA spokesperson said. The Defense Logistics Agency will coordinate longer-term purchasing of supplies, including personal protective equipment, the spokesperson said. That agency manages the supply chain for the entire U.S. military and has extensive experience in the area.

With their faith in basic investment strategies shattered, investors are turning to less-liquid private alternatives -- potentially charging into the center of a deepening recession along the way. JPMorgan Asset Management and Fiera Capital are among those touting the virtues of things like private equity, property and infrastructure in the wake of March’s broad market crash. BNY Mellon says it’s helping managers line up new funds targeting unlisted assets.

While “automation” can be a scary word to some workers, it may actually help mitigate pandemic-fueled job uncertainty and the depth of the recession, according to a working paper by two economists at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. As job uncertainty mounts, as seen in the current environment of stay-at-home orders and business closings, demand drops, unemployment increases and inflation falls, Sylvain Leduc and Zheng Liu write in “Can Pandemic-Induced Job Uncertainty Stimulate Automation?” Companies that in turn automate some of the jobs formerly held by humans fuel an increase in labor productivity. That increase partly offsets the recessionary impact of unemployment and falling inflation, Leduc and Liu found.

U.S. households expect the stock market to go higher in the next 12 months even as their own finances deteriorate, according to a Federal Reserve Bank of New York survey. Americans saw better than 50-50 odds of higher stock prices over the next year for the first time since data collection began in 2013, according to results of a monthly New York Fed consumer survey collected in April and published Monday. At the same time, expectations for growth in earnings, total household income and consumer spending all fell to the lowest levels in the survey’s seven-year history.

Richard Branson is considering selling more than a quarter of his stake in Virgin Galactic Holdings Inc., a move that would provide about $500 million to support his broader Virgin business empire. Branson’s Virgin Group may sell as many as 25 million shares in the space-travel firm, with the proceeds going to his leisure and travel businesses, according to a statement Monday. He owns 92.6 million shares of Virgin Galactic worth about $1.9 billion, his biggest holding in a listed business.





Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. The pound was already weighed down by concern over trade talks between the U.K. and Europe and the economic fallout of the virus when Prime Minister Boris Johnson added one more reason to be uneasy.





























Marriott International Inc. saw its business crater in April, with travel virtually shut down around the world.

Nineteen people were killed and 15 injured in a “misguided missile attack” on an Iranian support ship as the country’s navy carried out drills in the Gulf of Oman, the military and state media said. The Konarak was hit near the port of Jask on Iran’s southern coastline on Sunday, the state-run Islamic Republic News Agency said, citing a statement from the navy. Jask is east of the Strait of Hormuz and the site of a major oil and gas terminal project.

The Bloomberg New Economy Forum continues the second half of its Cities day at 7 p.m. New York time on Tuesday with speakers including Marriott International Inc. Chief Executive Officer Arne Sorenson and former U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. More information can be found online at www.neweconomyforum.com. The New Economy Forum is being organized by Bloomberg Media Group, a division of Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News. European Central Bank President Christine Lagarde warned that a key challenge facing policy makers is to stop the current economic crisis due to the coronavirus pandemic morphing into a financial crisis.

Twitter Inc. is expanding its version of Stories, a product that lets users post photos and videos that disappear after 24 hours, in an effort to encourage more sharing. Twitter has been testing the product, called Fleets, in international markets like Brazil and India, and beginning Tuesday is making it available globally, including to users in the U.S. The company launched Fleets in March, hoping to capitalize on the popular Stories feature that was invented by Snap Inc.’s Snapchat and later spread globally by Facebook Inc., which copied it into all of its apps.

The chief executive officers of Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc. fielded the latest round of complaints from U.S. senators who remain divided on how to regulate the companies heading into 2021. Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg and Twitter’s Jack Dorsey answered questions Tuesday before the Senate Judiciary Committee about content moderation and their role in political discourse for more than four hours, with Republicans reprising their claims that the companies silence conservatives and Democrats revisiting worries about the proliferation of misinformation and hate speech on the platforms.

Pennsylvania’s highest court reversed a ruling that allowed Trump campaign observers to get within 6 feet of the ballot-counting process, ending a rare Republican victory in their legal quest to cast doubt on the election result. The Pennsylvania Supreme Court ruled Tuesday that the state’s elections code doesn’t specify how close poll watchers are allowed to get to the canvassing process and that county elections officials have discretion in setting the limit.

Are central bankers too strong or too weak? Unfortunately for the global economy, the answer is both: Their control of money is a blunt instrument that’s good for achieving some objectives, but worthless for others. Never has the disparity been clearer than now, with financial markets soaring on the back of easy monetary policy even as many lives are wrecked by the Covid-19 pandemic. How central bankers should grapple with the paradox of their power and powerlessness was the theme of a 36-minute videoconference on Nov. 16 that was part of the Bloomberg New Economy Forum. The forum, which runs through Nov. 19, is organized by Bloomberg Media Group, a division of Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News. When the only tool you have is a hammer, every problem starts to look like a nail. For central banks, the hammer is monetary policy, which involves—as the Federal Reserve puts it—“managing the level of short-term interest rates and influencing the availability and cost of credit in the economy.” The tool was essential earlier this year in preventing pandemic-related economic shutdowns from crashing the financial system.  But while central banks can lend, they can’t make outright grants. While they can make overall financial conditions easier, they can’t direct funds to sectors, or segments of the public, that are in special trouble. To their credit, central bankers have recognized their limitations and called on the fiscal authorities to use the tools at their disposal. But governments have not entirely heeded the call. In the U.S., for example, Republicans and Democrats are deadlocked over a new coronavirus relief package. Speaking at Bloomberg’s forum were three former central bank chiefs—Janet Yellen of the Fed, Raghuram Rajan of the Reserve Bank of India, and Mervyn King of the Bank of England—and Lawrence Summers, who was Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration. Moderating was Stephanie Flanders, a Bloomberg News senior executive editor and head of Bloomberg Economics. If you like head shots of economists sitting in front of bookcases, this is  the video for you. Yellen, who went first, got  right to the point, that “monetary policy has its limits” and that fiscal relief is “essential.” (Fiscal policy covers spending and taxation, vs. monetary policy, which involves interest rates.) King said, “We have to get away from the idea that if anything goes wrong, central banks have to step in and throw money at the problem.” Rajan, the only one of the four to focus on the problems of emerging markets, said, “There is no global leadership right now. Hopefully it will emerge.” And Summers, who has breathed life into the Depression-era notion of “secular stagnation,” said the mistake for central bankers is “to vastly exaggerate their continuing relevance.” Now that central bankers in the rich, industrialized nations have already pushed interest rates about as low as they can possibly go, he said, they lack “the capacity to provide meaningful impetus to their economies.” “The deep macro problem is that savings are exceeding the natural level of private investment,” Summers said. By accounting convention total savings must equal total investment, so when desired savings is greater than desired investment, something’s got to give. One of Summers’s preferred solutions is for the government to pick up the slack by increasing public investment, such as construction and repair of infrastructure. Since central banks can whipsaw financial markets with the merest hint of an increase or decrease in interest rates, it’s easy to believe that central bankers are too powerful. In some ways, perhaps, they are. But central bankers themselves are all too aware of what they can’t accomplish.

Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer on Tuesday asked Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to resume talks on a stimulus package, while McConnell stuck to his insistence on a targeted package. “We write to request that you join us at the negotiating table this week so that we can work towards a bipartisan, bicameral Covid-19 relief agreement,” Pelosi and Schumer wrote. They said they were encouraged by McConnell’s comments after Election Day calling for stimulus and saying “it’s a possibility we will do more for state and local governments” -- one of the key areas of disagreement.

The leading drugstores, drug distributors and health insurers lost about $22 billion in market value Tuesday after Amazon.com Inc. revealed plans to start selling prescription drugs to its Prime members in the U.S. The long awaited move pushed Walgreens Boots Alliance Inc. and CVS Health Corp. down the most since March, while Rite Aid Corp. sank 17%.

The U.K. won a legal challenge brought by activists over claims that new planning regulations break environmental and equality laws. A London court decision turned down an application for judicial review brought by Rights: Community: Action. The ruling means changes introduced by the government’s housing department over the summer, which form part of Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s plan for an “infrastructure revolution,” will go ahead.

Activist investor Kimmeridge Energy Management Co. has built new positions in Ovintiv Inc., PDC Energy Inc., and Cimarex Energy Co. and plans to push for changes at the oil and gas companies to improve their performance and governance. The New York-based investor considers Ovintiv, formerly known as Encana Corp., to be the poster child for all that ails the North American exploration and production sector, according to Mark Viviano, its head of public equities. The sector as a whole is rife with excessive compensation and a lack of accountability, he said in an interview.

President-elect Joe Biden said Tuesday he would work to rebuild international institutions he said were damaged during Donald Trump’s presidency and that his message to world leaders is that “America is back.” Biden met Tuesday with defense and intelligence experts, many of whom worked for President Barack Obama when Biden was vice president. He had gathered them together because the Trump administration has blocked him from getting the intelligence briefings traditionally granted the president-elect.

As soon as London’s first coronavirus lockdown ended last summer, Abbie Sheppard, 24, took a quick vacation to the island of Bermuda.Four months later, the vacation is long over but she’s still there -- one of the thousands of people lured to islands in the Caribbean and the North Atlantic by programs aimed at snagging remote workers.“I just never went back,” Sheppard, the chief of staff at the celebrity-booking company Cameo, said by telephone. With traditional tourism hammered by the pandemic and many in Europe and North America working from home amid shorter days and dropping temperatures, islands across the Caribbean are trying to attract longer-term visitors. It’s the sun-kissed version of the road-tripping and temporary-rental trend seen over the summer.Barbados, the Cayman Islands, Aruba, Puerto Rico, and St. Kitts and Nevis are among those wooing home-bound toilers from abroad. This is distinct from pandemic promotions by some islands to sell second passports at a discount.

In the Before Times, Amazon.com Inc. flooded the web with come-ons encouraging people to snap up deals on Black Friday, Thanksgiving and Cyber Monday. Last year, for example, the company targeted procrastinators by pledging to whisk orders to them in one day or less. But this isn’t a normal year. As the pandemic pushes shoppers online and Amazon braces for an orgy of buying, its marketing team is encouraging shoppers to order now and still score “Black Friday-Worthy Deals.”

Zimbabwe plans to stop fixing the prices of commodities and will set up a trading exchange before the end of the year where market prices will prevail, Finance Minister Mthuli Ncube said. “We as government determine prices of wheat, maize and cotton,” said Ncube in an interview Tuesday with the state-owned Zimpapers Television Network. “We want the market to be able to do this, so we are going to launch a proper commodity exchange that makes sure that prices are market determined, and they are fair.”

A Google employee in a court fight with the search company is trying to block a $310 million settlement to resolve separate litigation over sexual harassment and executive misconduct. The employee, who’s identified in court papers by the pseudonym John Doe, has been sparring with the internet giant for four years over internal policies that he says muzzle staffers who want to speak out about workplace issues.

Indian stocks rose on Tuesday as favorable initial results for a second Covid-19 vaccine fanned optimism of an exit from the pandemic. The S&P BSE Sensex climbed 0.7% to 43,952.71 in Mumbai, while the NSE Nifty 50 Index advanced by the same magnitude. Both gauges extended gains from all-time high closing levels.

Powerful Hurricane Iota is lashing Central America after barreling ashore late Monday with ferocious winds and rain, threatening to trigger landslides and cripple a region already reeling from a deadly storm two weeks ago. Iota, the most powerful Atlantic storm in a record-setting season, made landfall along Nicaragua’s northeastern coast as a Category 4 hurricane with winds of 155 miles (249 kilometer) per hour. It hit just 15 miles south of where Hurricane Eta came ashore, killing more than 100 people and forcing tens of thousands to evacuate.

Donald Trump ordered the Pentagon to accelerate a drawdown of U.S. troops in Afghanistan and Iraq to 2,500 in each nation, as the president works to deliver on his longtime pledge to exit from “endless wars” before he leaves office in January. Acting Secretary of Defense Christopher Miller announced the decision Tuesday at the Pentagon. The order would reduce troops from about 4,500 in Afghanistan and from about 3,000 in Iraq less than a week before President-elect Joe Biden takes office.

A.P. Moller-Maersk A/S has launched a $1.6 billion share buyback program, as the world’s biggest container shipping company says the Covid crisis has so far dented its business less than feared. Copenhagen-based Maersk, which late on Tuesday raised its guidance for a second time since October, reported a 39% increase in Ebitda to $2.3 billion in the third quarter. Profit by that measure, before restructuring and integration costs, will reach $8 billion to $8.5 billion this year, it said. Previous guidance was for $7.5 billion to $8 billion.

Malaysian low-cost carrier AirAsia Group Bhd. is reviewing investment in its cash-starved Indian affiliate, hours after its Japan unit filed for bankruptcy. “Our businesses in Japan and India have been draining cash, causing the Group much financial stress,” Bo Lingam, president of airlines at AirAsia Group, said in a statement on its website. “Cost containment and reducing cash burns remain key priorities evident by the recent closure of AirAsia Japan and an ongoing review of our investment in AirAsia India.”

For a fresh perspective on the stories that matter for Australian business and politics, sign up for our new weekly newsletter. China gave one of its most detailed explanations yet for souring ties with Australia, calling on the nation to stop trying to impose its will on others.

Theo Epstein, the baseball executive who helped the Chicago Cubs snap their 108-year World Series drought, has resigned as the team’s president of baseball operations. Epstein’s last day in charge will be Nov. 20, according to a statement from the Cubs. He led the organization for nine seasons.

Sheldon Solow, a Brooklyn-born college drop-out who became a real estate billionaire by developing architecturally distinctive high-rise buildings in Manhattan, has died. He was 92. He died Tuesday at Weill Cornell Medical Center in New York after a month-long battle with lymphoma, according to Mia Fonssagrives Solow, his wife of 48 years.

Microsoft Corp. said it has developed a security technology that chipmakers Intel Corp. and Advanced Micro Devices Inc. plan to incorporate into personal-computer processors to boost their ability to ward off hackers and cyber-attacks. Intel and AMD said chips with the new technology, which Microsoft is calling Pluton, will be ready within the next few years. Qualcomm Inc. expressed support for the approach, but declined to say whether it would incorporate this specific design in its chips. Microsoft and the chip companies for years have been seeking ways to bolster computer protection by locking important information like passwords and security certificates in hardware, making it tougher for hackers to exploit vulnerabilities in one computer program or part of a device and use that weakness to take over an entire machine.The Microsoft design will be directly embedded on the main computer processor, which makes it harder to hack PCs and laptops, and will offer more consistency in PC security if the technology is widely used. The advantage that on-chip security offers over software-based protection is that physical access to the machine is usually required to hack in, compared with the risk of a remote attack via the internet. That’s become even more important during the Covid-19 pandemic, because many company employees are working remotely on home hardware rather than operating behind corporate firewalls.

Ric Clark, a Brookfield veteran of more than three decades, is teaming up with Philip “Tod” Waterman to form a new real estate investment and operating company known as WatermanClark. “Ric and I have collaborated on real estate investments and civic projects for more than three decades and we are thrilled that timing and circumstances have come together to allow for this partnership to happen,” Waterman, a former Tishman Speyer executive, wrote in a memo to staff reviewed by Bloomberg News.

Keir Starmer, leader of the U.K.’s opposition Labour Party, said he will not allow his predecessor Jeremy Corbyn back into the parliamentary group even though his suspension from the national party has been lifted. Starmer’s decision on Wednesday, which risks igniting a fresh civil war between factions in the party, means Corbyn will not be able to sit as a Labour lawmaker in Parliament.

U.S. Immigrations and Customs Enforcement is planning new large-scale expenditures on cloud computing with Microsoft Corp. and Amazon.com Inc.’s Amazon Web Services unit. The deal, slated for early 2021, could could reignite tensions within the companies, where groups of employees have objected to working with agencies that have presided over family separations and raids targeting undocumented immigrants.  ICE officials are in the market for “cloud infrastructure hosting in AWS and Microsoft Azure environments,” according to a Homeland Security Department website listing upcoming contracting opportunities. The agency is looking for a third-party contractor to manage its existing systems stored in AWS and Microsoft cloud computing infrastructure, as well as to expand its access to new cloud services offered by both companies.

Imperial Brands Plc forecast a return to profit growth this fiscal year as tobacco prices remain strong and its vaping business reduces its losses.

Follow Bloomberg on LINE messenger for all the business news and analysis you need. With their terracotta roof tiles, French-style timber windows and brightly-colored facades, Singapore’s distinctive shophouses are becoming the latest sought-after property asset for family offices, tycoons and real estate funds.

The contours of a Brexit deal between the U.K. and European Union are clear to both sides, Ireland’s prime minister said, as the two sides struggle to reach a trade agreement. Negotiating teams understand “the landing zones” around an accord, Micheal Martin said at the Bloomberg New Economy Forum, warning it’s not yet fully clear if his U.K. counterpart, Boris Johnson, truly wants an accord.

Taiwanese and Hong Kong activists expressed alarm over reports that China was compiling a global watch list of those who have voiced views deemed separatist, a move that would mark a major escalation in Beijing’s pursuit of its critics. China is gathering names of prominent advocates of Taiwanese independence, Beijing-backed newspaper Ta Kung Pao reported earlier this week. The list could include activists both in Taiwan and abroad as well as those who helped fund such activities, Ta Kung Pao said, citing officials it didn’t name. The newspaper is among the publishing operations controlled by China’s government through its Hong Kong Liaison Office.

It’s just suffered its biggest economic slump since the Great Depression, its border is closed and unemployment is rising, but New Zealand’s housing market is booming. Undeterred by the recession, buyers are rushing to take advantage of the record-low borrowing costs delivered by the central bank as it seeks to reflate the economy. House prices, which had been expected to drop during the pandemic, have instead surged to fresh record highs. The average price rose an annual 8% in October to NZ$753,000 ($519,800), the fastest gain in more than three years, while sales soared 25% from a year earlier in the busiest month since 2016.

For a fresh perspective on the stories that matter for Australian business and politics, sign up for our new weekly newsletter. Australia’s Treasurer Josh Frydenberg urged the nation’s financial regulators not to hinder the economic recovery by stifling the flow of credit to consumers and businesses.

Kuwait-based food and beverage firm Mezzan Holding Co. is on the lookout for acquisitions to help sustain double-digit growth, according to its chief executive officer. “We, like everybody else, would be actively on the lookout for the right bolt-on acquisitions,” Garry Walsh told Bloomberg TV in an interview. “We’re obviously more skewed toward manufacturing -- that has been our main driver over the last few years.”

Sign up for Next China, a weekly email on where the nation stands now and where it's going next. China should set an economic growth target of about 5% over the next five years, although the expansion will likely fluctuate this year and next because of the coronavirus pandemic, a government-affiliated economist said.

European stocks fell, with health shares down the most, as investors assessed gains that had pushed equities to an almost nine-month high. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index closed 0.2% lower, as drugmakers and travel and leisure shares offset gains in insurers and autos. The export-heavy FTSE 100 Index retreated 0.9%, underperforming the wider market as the pound rose on expectations of a Brexit trade agreement.

Brazil’s richest man is using his personal fortune to make sure the nation has a place in the race for a coronavirus vaccine. Jorge Paulo Lemann is financing AstraZeneca Plc’s vaccine trials in the nation after being approached by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, he said on the sidelines of the Bloomberg New Economy Forum on Tuesday. So far, Brazil’s results in fighting the pandemic “don’t look good,” Lemann said.

Iowa Senator Chuck Grassley, an 87-year-old in the line of succession to the presidency, announced Tuesday that he had tested positive for the coronavirus. Grassley reported the test results late in the day, after beginning a quarantine Tuesday morning following notification he had been exposed to the virus. On Monday, Grassley gave a speech on the Senate floor, without wearing a mask.

California has no comprehensive approach to building affordable housing and its mismanagement resulted in the loss of $2.7 billion of bond-issuing authority that could have gone toward preventing more residents falling into homelessness, according to a report from state Auditor Elaine Howle released Tuesday. While the state has four agencies providing financial support to housing developers, their requirements are “misaligned and inconsistent, which results in an unnecessarily cumbersome process,” the audit said. It called for the elimination of a debt committee chaired by Treasurer Fiona Ma that allocates the state’s limited bond capacity.

Amazon.com Inc. unveiled its biggest push into selling prescription drugs with the launch of a digital pharmacy and discounts for paying U.S. Prime members that sent shock waves through shares of drugstore chains and distributors. The e-commerce giant on Tuesday unveiled Amazon Pharmacy, a section of its retail website and mobile application that lets people order medication. Shoppers can pay using their health insurance. Prime members who don’t use their insurance are eligible for discounts on generic and brand-name drugs on Amazon’s site or at about 50,000 participating pharmacies.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel expressed optimism that a recovery in Europe’s biggest economy will gather pace once the coronavirus pandemic is brought back under control. Merkel said that while the situation remains “very serious,” officials are better equipped now to fight the disease than at the start of the outbreak in the spring. She cited recent progress in developing vaccines as another positive sign.

Judy Shelton’s nomination to the Federal Reserve Board was blocked in the Senate Tuesday, a stunning setback for Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and a blow to President Donald Trump’s drive to shake up the U.S. central bank before he leaves office. After Covid-19 exposure forced two Republican senators into quarantine, the GOP was left short of the votes needed to overcome united Democratic opposition. McConnell switched his vote to no once the outcome became clear, a tactical move that would allow him to bring the nomination up for reconsideration. That could happen as soon as this week if one of the two quarantining senators can return.

A panel of OPEC+ ministers told the group to be vigilant and responsive to the needs of the oil market, after discussions about whether their planned January production increase should be delayed. The committee that monitors the market stopped short of giving a firm recommendation on whether the supply hike should proceed as scheduled. Ministers had been discussing a delay of three to six months. A final decision will be made at a full ministerial meeting on Nov. 30 to Dec. 1.

Deutsche Boerse AG agreed to buy a majority stake in Institutional Shareholder Services Inc., a transaction that aims to seize on the growing appetite for sustainable investing. The deal for an 80% holding values the corporate governance adviser at $2.3 billion and will see the German exchange operator pair ISS’s services with its index business, according to a statement Tuesday. In total, revenue synergies are expected to result in an additional 15 million euros ($18 million) of earnings by 2023.

Talkspace, an online therapy app promoted by celebrities including swimmer Michael Phelps and singer Demi Lovato, is working with an adviser on a potential sale, according to people with knowledge of the matter. The New York-based company could be valued at about $1 billion in a sale, said one of the people, who asked to not be identified because the talks are private.

Hyundai Motor Group and Aptiv Plc’s $4 billion self-driving venture received permission from the state of Nevada to test autonomous vehicles on public roads without a safety driver, the company said. The joint venture, dubbed Motional, got the approval from Nevada’s Department of Motor Vehicles about a month ago. It will begin operating Chrysler Pacifica minivans without a human driver in the next few months, said Laura Major, Motional’s chief technology officer. There still will be a person in the passenger seat to stop the car if anything goes wrong, she said.

House Democrats asked the U.S. Supreme Court to postpone a scheduled Dec. 2 argument on their bid for access to confidential materials from Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation. In a court filing Tuesday, the House Judiciary Committee pointed to Joe Biden’s election as president and the advent of a new Congress in January as reasons for the court to hold off hearing the case.

A spike in coronavirus infections through the U.S. holiday shopping season could trigger more bankruptcies from retailers, even after the biggest surge in Chapter 11 filings on record this year. Retail businesses, already squeezed by changing consumer habits and the rise of online behemoths like Amazon and Walmart.com, are required to follow state and federal regulations to curb the spread of the virus during what’s normally the busiest buying period of the year. After the traditional Black Friday and Christmas shopping sprees, some may opt to file for bankruptcy if they don’t bring in enough cash to survive.

While President Donald Trump’s campaign lawyer Rudy Giuliani was claiming in a Pennsylvania federal court hearing that Democrats conspired to block Republican poll observers from monitoring ballot counts for fraud, the state’s supreme court dealt that argument a powerful blow. The Pennsylvania Supreme Court ruled on Tuesday that Republican poll observers were not entitled to stand within a certain distance to observe the counting of ballots. The campaign and other Republicans have premised their most extravagant claims of voter fraud on the idea that Republican observers were kept too far away to properly monitor ballot-counting.

Nigeria lifted a ban on flights to the West African country by Air France, KLM, Lufthansa and Qatar Airways Africa’s most populous country of more 200 million people barred a number of airlines as it resumed international flights on Sept. 5 following a prolonged lockdown to curb spread of the coronavirus, saying it was in retaliation for similar restrictions.

One of the biggest challenges to delivering a promising coronavirus vaccine based on unprecedented technology to millions around the world just got easier. When Pfizer Inc. announced effective preliminary results for its vaccine candidate last week, the downside was that it must be stored at ultra-cold temperatures, posing significant logistical issues. But Moderna Inc. on Monday one-upped its rival, offering a vaccine based on the same technology that appears to be equally effective, but which also can be stored at regular refrigerated temperatures for up to a month.

The Palestinian Authority agreed to resume ties with Israel’s government as both prepare for the presidency of Joe Biden, which is likely to be less favorable to Israel than the outgoing U.S. administration. The Palestinian leadership in May had cut security coordination and stopped receiving monthly transfers of taxes that Israel gathers on its behalf to protest Israeli plans to extend sovereignty over almost a third of the occupied West Bank.

Home Depot Inc. shares declined after the home-improvement retailer reported higher costs and a plan to spend $1 billion to boost annual compensation for front-line hourly employees. While same-store revenue, a key gauge of performance for retailers, rose 24% in the quarter ended Nov. 1, that also brought higher expenses. Cost of sales, a measure of what the company spends to generate each sale, was up 24% from a year ago, according to the statement. Part of that is due to protective gear for associates and constant cleaning of the stores.

Walmart Inc. reported another solid quarter as consumers turned to the essential retailer for groceries, home goods and more. But it’s what executives didn’t say that left Wall Street uneasy. The world’s largest retailer wouldn’t provide a full-year forecast and executives offered only generalities on its much-touted subscription service, Walmart+, despite repeated attempts from analysts on a conference call to get more. Walmart also said it’s still struggling to stock key items such as bath tissue and cleaning supplies.

The investors pushing for changes at CoreLogic Inc. have won three seats on the board of the data provider after a lengthy battle that has dragged out since June. CoreLogic said in a statement that preliminary tallies show that Cannae Holdings Inc. and Senator Investment Group have won the necessary support for three of their nominees: Steve Albrecht, Wendy Lane and Henry Winship. The statement confirmed an earlier Bloomberg News report.

France‘s second lockdown will push the economy back into a slump and slow the recovery in 2021, even though restrictions to contain the coronavirus aren’t as severe as earlier in the year. In a best-case scenario of restrictions ending Dec. 1 and a quick return to the levels of activity seen just before the second lockdown, output would still drop 2.5%, statistics agency Insee said Tuesday. If activity remains at November’s levels through December, the contraction could be as deep as 6%.

The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is pushing ahead with a plan that threatens to kick Chinese companies off U.S. stock exchanges, setting up a late clash between Washington and Beijing as the Trump administration winds down. By the end of this year, the SEC intends to propose a regulation that would lead to the delisting of companies for not complying with U.S. auditing rules, according to people familiar with the matter.

There’s a tug of war taking place in the $20 trillion Treasuries market between traders taking heart from progress toward a coronavirus vaccine and those monitoring a resurgence in infections. Even after U.S. yields climbed last week to their highest level since March, expectations for a pick-up in inflation off the back of an inoculation-induced economic rebound remain muted. The bond selloff looks mostly done for Barclays Plc, while ING Groep NV anticipates a pullback in yields driven by renewed demand for the safety of government debt.

President-elect Joe Biden spoke to several more foreign leaders. He also spoke to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who is friendly with President Donald Trump. And Georgia’s top elections official sees no sign of “foul play” in elections results. Other Developments:









Ray Dalio said Tuesday that he might be missing something about Bitcoin as the cryptocurrency passed $17,000 for the first time in almost three years. “It’s not very good as a store-hold of wealth because its volatility is great and has little correlation with the prices of what I need to buy,” the billionaire founder of Bridgewater Associates said in a series of posts on Twitter, adding that governments could eventually outlaw it if it started to compete with the currencies they control.

Manulife Financial Corp. has added gender-affirmation coverage that pays for some surgeries and other treatments for its transgender employees in the U.S. and Canada, putting the insurer in a select group of companies that offer such benefits. The coverage includes surgeries such as Adam’s apple reductions, cheek or breast augmentation and treatments like voice training, the Toronto-based insurer and wealth manager said Tuesday.

The credit default shock waves rippling through China are hurting demand for sovereign bonds, with market watchers seeing the slide lasting the rest of 2020. China’s 10-year government notes are set to drop for a seventh month in November, on track for the longest retreat since 2007. The decline has pushed the benchmark yield to 3.32%, set for the highest since May 2019. A technical indicator suggests the bonds are facing the worst selling pressure in a year.

Armenian President Armen Sarkissian called for the resignation of Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan and for snap parliamentary elections, amid a deepening political crisis over the country’s defeat against Azerbaijan in fighting over Nagorno-Karabakh. “The entire Armenian people are entering a period of new trials in which every mistake can bring forth disastrous consequences,” Sarkissian said in a televised speech late Monday, in which he also called for the creation of a national unity government until elections are held. “I hope that all the political forces will realize the responsibility of the moment.”

The clock is ticking for the nation’s biggest mass-transit system. New York’s Metropolitan Transportation Authority needs $12 billion of federal funds by late March to avoid drastic cuts to subway and commuter-rail service because the coronavirus has decimated revenue and ridership. While mass-transit providers will have an advocate in President-elect Joe Biden, a long-time Amtrak rider, he doesn’t take office until Jan. 20, one month after the MTA approves its 2021 budget.

Billionaire hedge fund manager Michael Hintze has stepped up succession planning after a turbulent year at his investment firm. Hintze disclosed plans to form a group of senior partners at his London-based firm CQS, according to a letter on Tuesday to his clients seen by Bloomberg. The group, including Michael Peat, Soraya Chabarek, Prakash Narayanan, Craig Scordellis and Jason Walker, will share higher equity stakes and develop a firmwide strategy.

Pfizer Inc. Chief Executive Officer Albert Bourla said that a key safety milestone had been reached in the study of its Covid-19 vaccine, and the drugmaker is now preparing to seek an emergency-use authorization from U.S. regulators. Speaking at a virtual conference hosted by the New York Times on Tuesday, Bourla said the company was preparing to submit its data to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Last week, Pfizer and its partner BioNTech SE reported that an interim analysis showed their experimental vaccine was more than 90% effective in preventing symptomatic cases of Covid-19.

President Donald Trump’s health secretary expects Pfizer Inc. and Moderna Inc. to apply “any day now” for government approval of their coronavirus vaccine candidates, and he downplayed the likelihood that wrangling over the election outcome will delay distribution. Trump has refused to concede defeat to President-elect Joe Biden, which has stalled the formal transition process -- raising fears that the vaccination program could be hindered.

British Airways and partner American Airlines Group Inc. will begin offering coronavirus tests to some flyers to London from the U.S. in the biggest push yet to kick-start travel on vital trans-Atlantic routes. Free tests will be offered ahead of American Airlines flights from Dallas and BA trips from New York and Los Angeles starting Nov. 25, the two carriers said in a statement on Tuesday. Passengers who volunteer will take tests 72 hours before departure and on arrival at London’s Heathrow airport, while a kit will be provided for a third check three days after that.

Two of the hedge fund industry’s quantitative powerhouses are getting tripped up this year as wild markets throw off their investing models. Renaissance Technologies, which manages the world’s biggest quant hedge fund, and Two Sigma Advisers have seen losses across several of their funds in 2020, a sign of how unprecedented market volatility caused by the Covid-19 pandemic hurt even the most sophisticated traders.

Payments processor StoneCo Ltd. has cleared a major hurdle for a 7.2 billion real ($1.4 billion) takeover of Brazilian software provider Linx SA. Linx’s shareholders approved the transaction in a meeting held on Tuesday, according to three people familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified because the decision is not yet public. Following months of negotiations that included governance backlash and a competing bid from a rival, Stone -- which counts Warren Buffett among its main backers -- sweetened its offer hours before the meeting, proposing 32.06 reais per Linx share in cash plus 0.0126774 Stone Class A common shares.

Banco Santander SA is planning to sit out the wave of banking mergers sweeping its home market of Spain, opting instead to expand its digital platform. “We’re not about to participate in any, let’s say, traditional bank consolidation,” Chairman Ana Botin said in a panel discussion at the Bloomberg New Economy Forum on Tuesday. “We don’t believe that is the right thing for us at the moment. We’re much more likely to continue buying technology platforms or add-on acquisitions.”

Business groups urged Canada’s premiers to be more coherent and transparent in their response to the coronavirus as provinces lay down a patchwork of new restrictions to stem a second wave of infections. The groups, which include the Canadian Chamber of Commerce and the Business Council of Canada, said Canadians get “far too many conflicting messages” about masks and social gatherings. People would be more likely to comply if they understood the details behind the decisions, they said.

The majority of fund managers around the world are not measuring racial diversity within their staff, risking capital flows from socially-focused investors, research by pension consultancy Redington showed. Some 56% of firms surveyed said they do not collect data on race among their employees, according to a poll of more than 100 asset managers with $1 trillion in total assets. Of the managers that do, 52% have no Black investment team members, the survey said.

South Africa signed a plan to support its ailing sugar industry that was delayed by almost eight months due to the onset of the coronavirus pandemic. The so-called Sugar Master Plan agreed by the government, farmers, industrial users and retailers in the 14 billion-rand ($908 million) industry seeks to stem a crisis caused by a flood of cheap imports and a tax on sugar-sweetened drinks that lowered demand from beverage makers.

SoftBank Group Corp.’s founder Masayoshi Son said he has $80 billion in cash to buy back more shares and continue investing in both private and public companies. “If our shares drop down, I will buy back more shares more aggressively,” the chief executive officer said at the New York Times DealBook conference Tuesday. “We have $80 billion in cash at hand.”

U.S. household debt rose slightly in the third quarter, reaching the highest level ever as record-low interest rates continue to fuel a surge in home loan borrowing among consumers with excellent credit. Total debt increased 0.6% to $14.35 trillion from $14.27 trillion in the second quarter, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York said in a report published Tuesday. The gain was led by a surge in new mortgage loans, mostly refinancings, which reached $1.05 trillion, the second highest in data going back to 2003 and rivaling the historic refinance boom 17 years ago.

Boris Johnson will seek to make good on his promise to boost the economies of neglected regions of the U.K. with investment in thousands of jobs in green industries, under a plan expected to be announced on Wednesday. On Tuesday, the prime minister talked his cabinet through his 10-point plan for “a green industrial revolution,” which will be published this week, his spokesman James Slack told reporters.

South Africa’s insolvent national arms company wants to fire about 10% of its workers in a bid to survive after the government spurned its plea for a bailout. Denel SOC Ltd., whose predecessor was established to bypass sanctions against the apartheid regime, has told 379 workers in its artillery, ammunition and armored-car divisions that they could lose their jobs, according to Helgard Cronje, a representative of labor union Solidarity. The so-called section 189 notice sent to the employees is a legal step needed before cuts can take place.

A U.S. Navy destroyer successfully intercepted a mock intercontinental ballistic missile designed to simulate one developed by North Korea, a Pentagon official said. The Aegis-class destroyer operating near Hawaii earlier Tuesday fired a Standard Missile-3 model Block II A made by Raytheon Technologies Corp. at the target launched from Kwajalein Atoll in the Marshall Islands.

In a matter of days, America’s long effort to revive its virus-battered economy has been put on pause -- or thrown into reverse -- as new infections soar at the fastest pace since the pandemic’s earliest days. California on Monday reinstituted bans on many indoor businesses, and its governor warned he may impose a curfew. Michigan has ordered a three-week partial shutdown, while states including Oregon, Washington and New Jersey tightened curbs. Even the governor of Iowa, long resistant to virus rules, issued a limited mask mandate Monday. The new restrictions follow a rapid surge in cases -- with the country adding a million infections in the first 10 days of November alone -- that has led health officials to issue dire warnings about the prospect of uncontrollable outbreaks as the Thanksgiving holiday approaches. In a call with governors on Monday, Deborah Birx, a key member of the White House’s coronavirus task force, said the increase is showing no signs of a plateau and that nursing homes, in particular, are being hard-hit. “The whole country is on fire,” said Ellie Murray, assistant professor of epidemiology at the Boston University School of Public Health. “Since people can be infectious before they have symptoms, a lot of people right now are infectious and transmitting to people and don’t know it. We’re trying to get a grip on this large explosion.” Vice President Mike Pence told governors during a video conference Monday that the government had 20,000 hospital beds available around the country to handle patients, and that states had 13,000 more, according to a summary provided by Washington Governor Jay Inslee’s office. About 149,000 new cases were reported that day, according to the Covid Tracking Project. The nation’s average new-case count for the past seven days has jumped 37%, according to Johns Hopkins University data, the fastest at any point in the U.S. since late March. Pennsylvania has seen a 14% jump in total cases, while Ohio’s have surged 19%, Washington state’s climbed 11% and Illinois’s are up 18%. Michigan’s cases have increased 20%, the most since April. And in California, the number of new cases spotted each day surged more than 51% during the first week of November, according to the state -- faster than the 39% increase it endured during its last coronavirus wave in June. “The rate of increase is simply without precedent in California,” Governor Gavin Newsom said Monday during a briefing. “Every age group, every demographic -- racial, ethnic -- in every part of this state, we are seeing case rates increase.” The state, home to about 40 million residents, enacted tight restrictions on counties totaling 94% of its population, including shutting indoor dining, gyms, places of worship and theaters. Due to the alarming increases we are seeing in #COVID19 cases, CA is pulling an emergency brake.To slow the spread, 41 counties —94% of California’s population —will now be in purple, the most restrictive tier. On the White House task force call with governors, Birx said many states hit by the summer’s coronavirus surge saw case counts level off after 30 days, but that hasn’t happened this time. Seema Verma, administrator for the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, said infections have sharply increased among nursing-home patients since October, and controlling spread at the facilities is a priority, according to the summary. Infections aren’t isolated to a few geographic regions, as they were in earlier stages of the pandemic. They are rising simultaneously in urban and rural areas alike, in the Midwest and the South, as well as the east and west coasts. “This thing is spreading like wildfire all across the country,” Kentucky Governor Andy Beshear said during a Monday news conference. He said he would issue new restrictions on Wednesday if infection rates don’t drop, although he didn’t say what they would be. “I don’t want to ever see a refrigeration truck coming into the state because we need it for our lost loved ones,” Beshear said. Businesses that have already endured lockdowns and restrictions on how they operate face the prospect of even more disruption. Barry Gutin, a co-founder of Cuba Libre, a Philadelphia restaurant that will mark 20 years in December, said losses already were piling up with capacity restricted to 50%. On Monday, the city said it would ban indoor dining, as well as close performance spaces, gyms and libraries. Gutin called it “another gut punch which will make it much more difficult.” His company, GuestCounts Hospitality, with restaurants in Orlando, Atlantic City and Washington, D.C., received paycheck-protection loans, and staff benefited from unemployment funds with $600-a-week federal supplements. That’s gone now, he said, and “it’s going to take governmental action” to keep the industry afloat. “Right now we’re living on borrowings and my partner’s and my savings,” Gutin said. “Our job is to find ways to lose less money.” In New York, bars and restaurants with state liquor licenses now must close at 10 p.m., along with gyms, and indoor gatherings must be limited to 10 people. Governor Andrew Cuomo said Monday he will enact more restrictions if cases continue to rise. He has already shut schools and nonessential businesses in several hot spots. In New York City, officials are prepared to close schools if its citywide rate of positive tests reaches a seven-day average of 3%. As of Monday, it stood at 2.77%. New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy cut the state’s indoor gathering limit to 10 people from 25 starting Tuesday, and outdoor gatherings to 150 from 500 starting Nov. 23. In recent days, the state has had its first- and second-highest daily counts since the outbreak’s first wave hit it in March. WATCH: Murphy announces further restrictions on indoor and outdoor gatherings after daily cases reached a record over the weekend. Source: Bloomberg) Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan warned that closing local casinos would have a major impact, because they account for a large chunk of the city’s revenue. But he said he would enforce the state’s new restrictions regardless. “The budget is not my first concern right now,” Duggan said at a news conference Monday. “We had 50 to 60 people per day die in April. Right now I just want to protect the people of the city of Detroit. We’ll deal with the budget later.” — With assistance by Stacie Sherman, Nic Querolo, Alexander Ebert, and Dina Bass

Keurig Dr Pepper Inc. could follow Tesla Inc. into the S&P 500 after becoming the biggest company eligible for index inclusion. Shares fell 0.9% on Tuesday, the most in the Russell 1000 Soft Drinks Index, after a secondary offering by Keurig’s two largest holders priced at $28.45 per share premarket. The deal further increases the stock’s liquidity. For inclusion in the index, among other factors, a company must be highly liquid and have market capitalization of at least $8.2 billion.

Howard Marks, the dean of distressed-debt investing who turned bullish within days of the sector’s 2020 low, is back to a cautious stance now that the ensuing rally has whittled attractive targets down to pre-pandemic levels. “When the level of optimism is high, there is usually more room for disappointment,” Marks, the co-founder of Oaktree Capital Group, said in a Tuesday telephone interview. “The main way to achieve high returns in a low-return world is through taking increased risk. And I don’t think this is the climate to take more risk.”

Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. Sweden is bumping up against the limits of a strategy that has so far relied on recommendations rather than rules to stop people transmitting the coronavirus.

TIAA Chief Executive Officer Roger Ferguson, a contender to join President-elect Joe Biden’s cabinet, plans to retire from the investment giant. Ferguson, 69, will lead the organization through March, the company said Tuesday in a statement.

China’s surging economy is set to overtake 56 countries in the world’s per-capita income rankings during the quarter-century through 2025, the International Monetary Fund projects.By that date, China will rank 70th in the world on the metric, putting it close to joining the richest one-third of nations, according to data analyzed by Bloomberg from last month’s IMF World Economic Outlook. The Asian powerhouse is forecast to have per-capita GDP, adjusted for purchasing power, equal to $25,307 in 2025. That will take it past Argentina, one of the richest countries in the world a century ago and now mired in debt and currency crises.Jim O’Neill, the former head of Global Economic Research at Goldman Sachs Inc. who famously  created the BRICs acronym for Brazil, Russia, India and China in 2001, says that bloc “could become collectively bigger than the G-7 countries” in the 2030s, referring to the Group of Seven richest nations. “This is almost exclusively because of China, and to a smaller degree India,” he says.

Welcome to Tuesday, Europe. Here’s the latest news and analysis from Bloomberg Economics to help you start the day:

Epidemic Sound AB is considering a sale or initial public offering that could value the Swedish music licensing business at more than 1 billion euros ($1.2 billion), according to people familiar with the matter. The company is working with an adviser to explore strategic options, the people said, asking not to be identified discussing confidential information. Epidemic Sound’s backers include venture capital investors Atwater Capital and Creandum as well as private equity firm EQT AB.

Human baseball fans weren’t allowed to attend the Fukuoka SoftBank Hawks game on July 7, but that didn’t keep a collection of humanoid robots from supporting the home team with a peppy fight song while 20 mechanical dogs in baseball uniforms bopped along in unison. The canines were made by Boston Dynamics, and their performance perfectly illustrated the conundrum the company has faced since its founding almost three decades ago: It’s created what may be the world’s most technologically sophisticated—and expensive—parlor trick. Boston Dynamics has long represented the cutting edge of robotics in popular culture, captivating YouTube audiences with the fluid movements of its animal- and human-like machines. It’s had bouts of profitability over its 28 years of existence, but recently has been losing millions of dollars a year, vexing SoftBank Group Corp., as it did its previous owner, Google. SoftBank is now preparing to sell it to Hyundai Motor Co. for about  $1 billion, Bloomberg reported earlier this month. The deal isn’t complete and would require approval from the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States. Hyundai and SoftBank declined to comment, and a spokeswoman would only say that Boston Dynamics “continues to excite partners interested in exploring a deeper commercial relationship with our company.” Boston Dynamics also recently changed its longtime leader and hired its first head of sales. Chief Executive Officer Rob Playter is a former collegiate gymnast who wrote his PhD thesis on techniques for teaching robots to do somersaults. In an October interview, he said SoftBank was looking for profits. “While they want us to be a disciplined and commercial company, the actual direction of the company they are leaving to us,” he says. “Pressure? Sure, there’s pressure.” Playter became CEO late last year, replacing Marc Raibert, who founded Boston Dynamics in 1992. It was an outgrowth of his academic work on walking robots at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Under Raibert’s leadership, the company developed an increasingly impressive series of machines that moved in smooth, eerily lifelike ways. Many were funded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency and other arms of the U.S. military. In 2012, Boston Dynamics developed a robot called Cheetah that, along with its successor WildCat, could run faster than Jamaican sprinter Usain Bolt. Another, called Atlas, resembled a person in an astronaut’s suit and could perform backflips. Google purchased Boston Dynamics in 2013 and cut short the company’s military contracting work to focus on research and development. Owning the company cost Google about $50 million annually, according to a person familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified discussing private information. Those losses began to wear on Google when Andy Rubin, its biggest internal champion of robotics, left in 2014 following an allegation of sexual misconduct. Google started shedding unprofitable businesses the following year and sold Boston Dynamics to SoftBank, a famously deep-pocketed tech investor, in 2017. The price wasn’t disclosed at the time, but two people familiar with the matter say SoftBank paid about $165 million. Because of the potential military applications, the sale needed approval from Cfius. The agency stipulated that executives at the Japanese conglomerate couldn’t hire or fire management, direct the product road map, or have access to Boston Dynamics’s intellectual property, according to people familiar with the matter. By then the machines had started to seep into popular culture. In 2017 the popular Netflix show Black Mirror debuted an episode featuring robot dogs trying to hunt down people in a postapocalyptic world; creator Charlie Brooker later said it was inspired by Boston Dynamics videos. The company’s latest robotic dog model, Spot, has also become a YouTube sensation. In one 2018 clip with more than 60 million views, one of the yellow, four-legged machines is thwarted by the knob as it tries to open a door. Another version of Spot, this one equipped with a mechanical hand, turns the handle, and the pair pass through. Although the robots trot along amiably enough in the video, many viewers likened it to a scene from Jurassic Park in which velociraptors learn to open doors, to terrifying effect. Boston Dynamics joined a disparate collection of robotics ventures in SoftBank’s portfolio, including developers of robots for warehouses, restaurants, and other industrial applications. Its staff tripled, to 300 people, and it has moved into new headquarters in a refurbished former postal building in Waltham, Mass., at a cost of $20 million, according to a person familiar with the matter. But paying for the robot company’s operations cost SoftBank upwards of $150 million annually, one person familiar with the matter says. SoftBank’s appetite to bankroll flashy, money-losing businesses was weakened last year when one of its biggest investments, the coworking startup WeWork, saw its planned initial public offering theatrically  crash and burn. The pressure on Boston Dynamics increased further with economic strain related to the  Covid-19 pandemic. Late last year, SoftBank made a new push to steer the robot maker toward profitability, accelerating an effort that had started under Google. With SoftBank’s encouragement, Boston Dynamics promoted Playter, who had been its chief operating officer, and hired its first head of sales from Honeywell International Inc. The move wasn’t mandated by SoftBank, Playter says, describing the changes as a logical development after years of internally funded R&D under Google. “Since the SoftBank acquisition and with the maturation of the Spot robot, the company has resumed commercialization of our technologies,” he says. The billion-dollar price tag would be justified largely by progress on applications like these. Last month the company played host to 800 virtual attendees at its first customer and developer conference. The event focused on its robots’ potential to do more than delight and terrify YouTube viewers. Videos showed Spot conducting dangerous power plant inspections of pipes, monitoring a thermal exhaust treatment facility, and taking temperatures of Covid-infected patients at a Boston hospital. Some of these things are already happening. The company has sold about 400 of the machines, which start at $75,000 each, bringing in at least $30 million in revenue. Architectural giant Foster + Partners is testing out a Spot robot topped with a scanner to track progress at building sites. The robot is safer than the drones the company has tried for the same tasks, has longer battery life, and elicits more favorable reactions from human staffers, according to Foster partner Adam Davis. These capabilities are impressive but hardly unique to Boston Dynamics, says Remy Glaisner, a Boston-based robotics analyst at International Data Corp. “The applications they are right now displaying, it’s not just that there are other types of robots that do that, and probably do that much better,” he says. “It’s more about, ‘Could those robots do something we haven’t thought of yet?’ ” Playter says he’s most excited about a robot called Handle, which Boston Dynamics won’t release for sale for two years. Handle, which spins adroitly on two large wheels, is designed to automate tasks like moving boxes on and off pallets and perhaps even unloading boxes from trucks, a notoriously tough task for a robot. These may be the kinds of unglamorous tasks the company focuses on if the sale to Hyundai goes through. But the carmaker, which has experimented with ideas for walking cars, could also have an interest in the company’s quadruped technology. The robotics industry’s lack of an obvious leader leaves room for Boston Dynamics robots to mature into more than automated baseball fans, according to Glaisner. “There’s no Google of the robotics industry,” he says. —With Kyunghee Park Read next:  Honeywell Takes Tiny Steps Toward a Quantum Leap in Computing

Chevron Corp.’s willingness to keep a foothold in oil-rich Venezuela will now be a thorny political issue for President-elect Joe Biden to sort out. The U.S. Treasury Department extended until June 3 its authorization for Chevron to carry out essential transactions in the country to preserve its assets, from a previous Dec. 1 deadline. Since April, the U.S. oil giant has been barred from drilling wells or selling, buying or transporting crude and oil products in the South American nation.

Palantir Technologies Inc. surged to a fresh high after Steve Cohen’s hedge fund and others disclosed they’ve been buying shares of the data-mining company. Point72 Asset Management LP bought 29.9 million Palantir shares in the third quarter, according to a 13F filing released Monday. Anchorage Capital Group also acquired 2.95 million shares. Soros Fund Management LLC said in a statement released Tuesday that its current stake in Palantir amounts to about 1% of its Class A shares and it’s the result of a private early-stage investment made in 2012.

Singapore is concerned about the situation in Hong Kong and hopes the financial hub could “settle down to a new normal,” Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said. “We watch carefully and with some concern what’s happening in Hong Kong,” Lee said in an interview with Bloomberg News Editor-in-Chief John Micklethwait at the New Economy Forum. “That something was going to happen -- was very much on the cards -- and could not have been avoided because the demonstrations and the expressions of defiance could not have carried on indefinitely, certainly not to the end of ‘one country, two systems’ in 2047.” Lee’s comments came after China’s top legislative body last week passed a resolution allowing for the disqualification of any Hong Kong lawmakers deemed insufficiently loyal. Chief Executive Carrie Lam’s government immediately disqualified four legislators, prompting the remaining 15 opposition members in the 70-seat Legislative Council to resign. Lee Hsien Loong Photographer: Jason Alden/Bloomberg The loyalty resolution was the latest move by China to stifle dissent and debate in the former British colony in the wake of pro-democracy protests that rocked the city last year. That included the enactment of sweeping national security legislation, which raised concerns about the city’s future as a global business hub and prompted the U.S. to sanction top Chinese and Hong Kong officials. Lee said he hoped China could deal with Hong Kong “in a way which would deal with a problem, but not shake confidence, and maintain the Hong Kong system intact so that it can be valuable to China and can be part of the prosperity in the region.” The New Economy Forum is organized by Bloomberg Media Group, a division of Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News. — With assistance by Faris Mokhtar

U.S. stocks slumped as fresh restrictions to curtail the spread of coronavirus overshadowed signs that scientists are making fast progress toward a vaccine. The dollar held near its lowest level in two years. The S&P 500 Index closed at its lows of the day after New York City shut schools because of rising infections. Pfizer Inc. advanced after saying that its Covid-19 vaccine was 95% effective, paving the way for the company to apply for the first U.S. regulatory authorization for a coronavirus shot within days. Lowe’s Cos Inc. slumped after earnings trailed analysts’ expectations, while Target Corp. advanced on soaring sales.

A group of independent hotel owners is forming a “rebel alliance” to survive the pandemic and prevent their properties from getting swallowed up by the likes of Marriott International Inc. and Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc. The group, led by Pebblebrook Hotel Trust, is launching Curator Hotel & Resort Collection, a new company that aims to reduce costs on everything from bed linens to credit card processing. The move comes during the worst year in the history of the modern lodging industry, as spiking Covid-19 cases threaten to squash a modest travel rebound.

Monitoring Covid-19 vaccines for safety issues will fall to a group of U.S. health agencies that also will have a hand in their rollout, a potential hurdle in persuading skeptics to get the shots, say former government officials who helped control an outbreak a decade ago. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Food and Drug Administration, the Department of Veterans Affairs and other health agencies all have separate systems to track side effects and safety in people who get the first shots. But there are concerns the groups advising the agencies on all aspects of a vaccine may face public skepticism over their safety assessments at a time when vaccine hesitancy is a major concern.

Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s government unveiled a remake of Canadian privacy laws to strengthen user rights in the digital world. Under legislation introduced Tuesday in Ottawa, companies that commit the most serious offenses would be hit with fines worth as much as 5% of revenue or C$25 million ($19 million), whichever is higher. The government said these penalties would be the strongest among the Group of Seven.

U.S. manufacturing production rose at a solid pace in October, marking the sixth straight advance as factories continued to recover from the depths of the pandemic-driven lockdowns earlier this year. Output at factories increased 1% from the prior month, matching the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists, after an upwardly revised 0.1% gain in September, Federal Reserve data showed Tuesday. Total industrial production, which also includes mining and utility output, rose 1.1% in October after a 0.4% decrease a month earlier.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi is keen to attract foreign investment to modernize India’s urban centers as the world’s second-most-populous nation rebuilds its economy after the coronavirus pandemic halted activity. Covid-19 has given governments the chance to accelerate the “process of making cities more livable for people,” Modi said in his speech at the Bloomberg New Economy Forum on Tuesday. “We are looking at a future where a major chunk of education, healthcare, shopping, may happen online. Our cities need to be ready for the convergence of the physical and digital worlds.”

Paris (AP) -- Tens of thousands of critics of a proposed security law that would restrict the filming of police officers protested across France on Saturday, and officers in Paris who were advised to behave responsibly during the demonstrations repeatedly fired tear gas to disperse rowdy protesters who set fire to France's central bank and threw paving stones. The mood was largely peaceful, however, as dozens of rallies took place against a provision of the law that would make it a crime to publish photos or video of on-duty police officers with the intent of harming their “physical or psychological integrity.”

Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Nairobi, Kenya (AP) -- Ethiopia's military has gained “full control” of the capital of the defiant Tigray region, the army announced Saturday, and the prime minister said the taking of Mekele marked the “completion” of an offensive that started nearly four weeks ago. The regional government said the city of a half-million people was “heavily bombarded" in the final push to arrest its leaders.

An attempt by a group backing President Donald Trump to overturn the election results in Wisconsin is “fundamentally undemocratic,” the state’s attorney general said as he urged Wisconsin’s highest court to reject the request. “The people of Wisconsin have been entrusted to select our state’s presidential electors, and they made their decision on November 3, 2020,” Attorney General Joshua Kaul said in court filing Friday. “In a representative democracy like ours, that choice must be respected.”

Follow us  @middleeast for more news on the region. President Hassan Rouhani said Iran will respond to the killing of its top nuclear scientist “when the time is right,” and accused Israel of an “act of terrorism” in a significant escalation of tensions in the Persian Gulf.

India is looking to acquire stakes in lithium assets overseas to secure supplies of the metal used in making power-storage batteries, Rajiv Kumar, vice chairman of a government think tank, said. A team led by NITI Aayog, the National Institution for Transforming India, has visited Latin American countries to explore options, Kumar said in a virtual renewable energy seminar on Friday, without giving details.



















































































































Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Officials from Ethiopia’s northern Tigray state delivered a grim assessment of the devastation wrought by two weeks of fighting with the federal government.

Since August, a steady stream of cars has been pulling into a parking lot next to a downtown Spokane office building. Passengers get out to snap masked selfies in front of a freshly painted Black Lives Matter mural, with each letter filled in by a different local artist.  It’s a scenario that would have been hard to envision in June, when self-proclaimed militia members dotted Spokane’s downtown streets in response to Black Lives Matter demonstrations. “The sheer outpouring of support was beyond anything I could have ever imagined,” says Ginger Ewing, executive director of the arts nonprofit Terrain, who spearheaded the mural project. “I’m watching people take 45 minutes or an hour going to each letter, having conversations — parents talking with their kids. I actually think that post-pandemic it’s going to continue to be a gathering space for people to come and have necessary, hard conversations.” The impact of the mass movement against racial injustice that swept the U.S. after the Minneapolis police killing of George Floyd in May is just beginning to be seen and felt in policy changes and election results. But the movement has already left vivid physical marks on cities, via a wave of street art: Since a now-iconic mural dedicated to Floyd appeared on a wall near the Minneapolis street corner where he was killed, racial justice-themed paintings, messages and portraits proliferated in towns and cities across the United States, and beyond. Tributes to George Floyd emerged in places as far-flung as Karachi, Pakistan; Idlib, Syria; Nairobi, Kenya; and Athens, Greece.  Among the most influential works from these protests: The 50-foot, visible-from-space yellow letters spelling “Black Lives Matter” that Washington D.C., painted on the asphalt near Lafayette Square, just hours after the Trump administration used tear gas to clear protesters in June. That act inspired scores of  similar  pop-up road murals bearing similar messages in scores of cities, including downtown Raleigh, Tulsa’s historic Greenwood district and all five boroughs of New York City. In Nevada, “Black Lives Matter” was spelled out in tire tracks across four miles in Black Rock Desert, close to the Burning Man site. Particularly poignant is the mural that Prairie View A&M University students created under the supervision of the School of Architecture’s dean, Ikhlas Sabouni. It marks the stretch of road where police arrested Sandra Bland, a Black woman, in 2015 during a pretextual traffic stop. She was later found hanged in her jail cell.   The explosion of racial justice street art in the U.S. is part of the larger surge in murals and public art that have marked global cities transformed by the coronavirus pandemic. “There’s been more demand throughout Covid and Black Lives Matter [protests], which has opened up more spaces and led to more excitement,” says street artist and entrepreneur Evan Meyer, who founded Beautify, a Santa Monica-based technology company that offers an Airbnb-style platform to connect artists with community organizers and property owners nationally. The tool streamlines the logistics of executing beautification projects, allowing building owners to swiftly find muralists-for-hire. That’s proved useful in recent months in cities rocked by protests and lockdowns, both of which left retail districts in some cities  marred with large expanses of plywood-covered windows in need of quick, socially uplifting decoration. Recently, the U.S. presidential electionand its tense aftermath brought a spate of political art with voting-themed messages.  “We were able to be super-responsive to the needs of communities, whether that was painting boarded-up storefronts or providing tools and resources to organizations so they could activate projects and get more done,” says Meyer. “People understand they can use street art as a way to tell a story and it can become a historical element, a cultural piece. You have a choice to live in an environment that’s boring and bland, or to use our spaces to reflect who we are as people, especially during these important points in history.” Street messages are more than just symbolic gestures, says Milwaukee-based Nicolas Lampert, an artist and author of A People’s Art History of the United States: 250 Years of Activist Art and Artists Working in Social Justice Movements. “When you put up a mural, it amplifies community voices and amplifies the power of mass movements,” says Lampert, a member of Voces de los Artistas, an art affinity group with the immigrant rights center Voces de la Frontera. He recently helped organize a 275-foot-long mural in support of voting rights Milwaukee’s Historic Mitchell Street. “Public space is so important because it’s contested. And it’s commodified. The traditional ways people see visual messages is through billboards and spaces that cost money. When artists put up murals, they create an essential space for people to take in not just the views of powerful corporations, but the voices of artists and ordinary people. With the explosion of art after the tragic killing of George Floyd, people are putting up murals because they’re outraged. They’re saying ‘enough is enough’ and they’re expressing that through art.” “A mural can make a street corner into a social hotspot.” There is a deep-seated legacy of artists harnessing the collaborative power of public art and image-making to mobilize communities. In “The Power of the Urban Canvas: Paint, Politics, and Mural Art in Policy,” published in the New England Journal of Public Policy, Maura E. Greaney investigates how urban mural programs evolved from impromptu political protest in Black and Latino communities in the 1960s. Perhaps most famously, the era’s civil unrest gave rise to the Wall of Respect, a “guerrilla mural” depicting more that 50 African-American figures painted in 1967 on a building in Chicago’s Grand Boulevard neighborhood. Before that, politically tinged murals and other public art were fixtures of President Franklin D. Roosevelt’s New Deal. The fact that art can document and inspire speaks to the importance of public spaces as critical infrastructure. As Matthew Clarke, executive director of the Design Trust for Public Space in New York City, points out, outdoor gathering places can serve as a nexus for public health and mental health. “Racism has been a persistent trauma in the American story for hundreds of years. That trauma is embedded in communities, neighborhoods and individuals,” he says. “There are ways to address trauma, and murals and public art are wonderful ways to do so. In times of national crisis or trauma, the need for free and creative expression is amplified.” Not all public art brings messages of social justice, of course. In an intensely polarized nation, they also serve as stages for America’s fractious political conversation. In 2019, the Southern Poverty Law Center counted 780 monuments honoring the Confederacy, most erected during the Jim Crow era as expressions of white supremacy. Less than three months since George Floyd’s death,  38 monuments were removed, the SPLC says, and many others have been targeted with anti-racist graffiti and vandalism. In response to the “Black Lives Matter” imagery, conservatives have countered different messages. In New York, pro-police groups that proposed a “Blue Lives Matter” mural filed a lawsuit against Mayor Bill de Blasio for rejecting the request. Tampa’s “Back the Blue” road mural, painted without a permit in August in front of police department headquarters, was defaced within days.  A similar face-off over street art gripped the Greenwood District of Tulsa, Oklahoma, site of the 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre. Community members painted a Black Lives Matter street mural on Greenwood Avenue on the eve of President Donald Trump’s June rally in that city. Early in August, the mural was vandalized with blue paint, and in October the city voted to remove it, citing objections from nearby property owners and potential distraction for drivers.  In Kansas City, Missouri, the city partnered with the local NAACP chapter and Urban League of Greater Kansas City to create six BLM street murals, totaling 2,000 linear feet, in different neighborhoods over the course of a weekend in September. When one 400-foot mural in Briarwood, an affluent neighborhood, was defaced with tire marks, the artist, Harold Smith, insisted on using it as a teaching moment. “He said if this isn’t a testament to why the mural has to be there, he didn’t know what else is,” says Crissy Dastrup, legislative aide to Kansas City Councilman Eric Bunch and cofounder of Troost Market Collective, a local arts nonprofit. Dastrup oversaw the mural projects and also organized what became known as Operation Clapback to repaint and repair the tire-damaged Briarwood mural: Locals were provided with stencils and a range of flesh-toned spray paints to leave multi-hued handprints and other messages on the street.  The final product telegraphs a we-will-not-be-defeated message, Dastrup says. “We weren’t going to go away with our tail between our legs; we were going to amplify what the vandals did, because this is exactly why we’re doing this project. It was about bringing the community together to get at something important.” When the community gathered, the mural fix took on a festive event-like air. That, too, is a product of public art-making, says Beautify’s Meyer.  “A mural can make a street corner into a social hotspot,” says Meyer. “With everything happening these days, there’s a lack of joy and hope. But communities are rebuilding themselves by telling local stories and, at the same time, making beautiful art for people to smile at. Healing comes from the realization that there’s still color, joy and beauty all around.”

Inflation in Canada unexpectedly picked up in October, partly on the back of rising home ownership costs. Annual inflation accelerated to 0.7%, from 0.5% in September, Statistics Canada reported Wednesday in Ottawa. That exceeded the 0.4% anticipated by economists in a Bloomberg survey. An index of replacement costs for homeowners rose by the most in 30 years last month, the agency said.

Sacramento, Calif. (AP) -- One of the youngest mayors in the country, who garnered national attention for starting a privately funded program to give poor people $500 a month in guaranteed income, conceded that he lost his bid for reelection in his California city. Four years after winning more than 70% of the vote, Stockton Mayor Michael Tubbs, 30, lost by more than 10 percentage points.

New Zealand’s central bank said it accidentally disclosed sensitive information from its latest Monetary Policy Statement to a group of financial services firms before the official publication time last week. The information was in a letter sent to non-bank financial institutions 45 minutes before the release of the policy statement at 2 p.m. on Nov. 11 in Wellington, the Reserve Bank said in a statement Wednesday. The letter confirmed the RBNZ’s decision to introduce a new round of monetary stimulus in the form of a Funding for Lending Program, but did not contain specifics, it said.

(AP) -- A lot of the effort to slow the spread of the coronavirus comes down to a seemingly simple concept: Wearing a mask. But the issue has proven a thorny one. Health authorities have changed their guidance on who should wear masks and when to wear them. This has led to some confusion and even suspicion. But since the coronavirus first appeared, authorities have gained a better understanding of how it spreads and how masks can help stop that spread. Here's a look at how what we know about masks has changed, and how government officials are increasingly getting behind the idea of mandating the use of masks. WHAT DO THE EXPERTS SAY? The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has long advised people to wear masks because they help prevent people who are infected — whether they know it or not — from spreading the coronavirus. But last week, the CDC added a new reason: masks can also protect wearers who are not infected, though to a lesser degree. The agency referred to a study led by Japanese researchers that found masks block about 60% of the amount of virus that comes out of an infected person. When an uninfected person wearing a mask is near an infected person who isn't wearing one, the amount of virus the uninfected person inhaled fell by up to 50%. But when BOTH people are wearing masks, that produced the best result. The decline in virus particles reaching the second person was close to 70%. So, if everyone wears a mask when social distancing is not feasible, the infection rate will be cut, experts say. A study done in Denmark, published Wednesday in Annals of Internal Medicine, seemed to question whether and to what extent masks protect the wearer. The study had a number of flaws, however, as the researchers acknowledged. For example, study participants who were supposed to wear masks sometimes didn’t. And the work was done at a time when not much coronavirus was spreading in Denmark – meaning there wasn’t a lot of data to draw conclusions from. Either way, experts say masks, while helpful, are not perfect. Keeping a distance, being in well-ventilated areas, and washing hands are also important ways to reduce risk. HOW IS THIS DIFFERENT FROM WHAT THEY'VE SAID BEFORE? U.S. Surgeon General Jerome Adams tweeted on Feb. 29: “Seriously people — STOP BUYING MASKS! They are NOT effective in preventing general public from catching #Coronavirus" But today, Adams has a different message pinned to the top of his Twitter account. “When we can't stay six feet away from others, please, I'm begging you, wear a face covering,” Adams says in the videotaped July 2 tweet. And in July, the CDC stressed that cloth face coverings are a critical tool in the fight against COVID-19, particularly when everyone wears them. Similarly, the World Health Organization early on had recommended against mask-wearing for the general public, saying they might lead to a false sense of security and that people who didn’t know how to use them properly could infect themselves. The World Health Organization changed its advice in June, and now says people should wear them when they can’t be socially distant. WHAT ARE THE FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS ON MASKS? In the United States, there are none. The CDC has made only recommendations. And the attitude from the White House has been casual at best. Before the election, President Donald Trump often ridiculed his then Democratic opponent, Joe Biden, for wearing one whenever he was out in public. The president also held rallies that brought together thousands of supporters, most of them not wearing masks. Biden, now president-elect, has said repeatedly that there should be a nationwide mask mandate. He has also promised to ask every governor to impose mask rules. For those who refuse, he’s vowed to go around them to seek similar mandates at the county or local level until the entire country is covered. Some other countries have already mandated mask use, from requiring them everywhere in public to using them on public transportation and in stores. HOW ARE U.S. STATES HANDLING THE SITUATION? It's a mix. As of Tuesday, 36 states have some type of mask mandate. Republican governors in Iowa, North Dakota and Utah — all states that are being hit hard — have recently reversed course and required at least limited mask use. Others have extended or expanded earlier orders. Iowa Gov. Kim Reynolds cast some doubt Tuesday on the science behind masks even as she imposed a limited mask rule, noting that neighboring states with mask mandates have seen rising numbers of cases, although not as severely as Iowa. “If you look, you can find whatever you want to support wherever you are at,” she said. In California, a more stringent mask mandate took effect on Tuesday. Democratic Gov. Gavin Newsom said residents will be required to cover up outdoors, with limited exceptions. —— AP Medical Writer Mike Stobbe contributed to this story from New York. ___ Follow Andrew Selsky on Twitter at https://twitter.com/andrewselsky

Hillary Clinton said Donald Trump’s Covid-19 stimulus had not reached those in the greatest need and that she hoped for an agreement on new relief before the new U.S. Congress takes over in early January. “The original stimulus post-Covid was not sufficient,” Clinton, the former Democratic presidential nominee and Secretary of State said on the Bloomberg New Economy Forum’s “Financing the ‘Real’ Economy” panel. “It really did not reach those people -- either the employees or the small businesses -- that were in the greatest need.”

American workers and businesses face a months-long survival test until Covid-19 vaccines become widely available as spending plunges with record daily cases prompting a sudden return to lockdowns. More than 1 million U.S. virus cases were reported in the past week, leading states including Michigan, New Mexico and California to set tighter rules on movement and commerce. A wide swath of businesses -- restaurants, hotels, retail shops, bowling alleys and theaters -- will confront a devastating winter, if they are able to remain open at all. Many workers face the holidays with food and shelter in doubt.

Tomasz Biernacki doesn’t want attention. The Polish businessman, 46, hasn’t done any major media interviews since crashing his Ferrari F430 more than a decade ago. He didn’t show up at the stock exchange when his company went public in 2017, and his management team rejects investor requests to meet in Warsaw, instead asking them to visit the company’s headquarters about 310 kilometers (193 miles) from the capital.

A lot of theories have emerged on why Bitcoin has skyrocketed almost 60% in the past month, with most heralding widespread adoption by institutions and individuals.The fact remains that there’s nothing widespread about Bitcoin ownership. A few large holders commonly referred to as whales continue to own most Bitcoin. About 2% of the anonymous ownership accounts that can be tracked on the cryptocurrency’s blockchain control 95% of the digital asset, according to researcher Flipside Crypto.

Target Corp.’s third-quarter sales show that pandemic-driven shopping is still surging heading into the holidays. Comparable sales including e-commerce, a critical gauge of success for retailers, jumped 20.7% from a year earlier, the retailer said Wednesday in a statement. That’s almost double the estimate of 11.6% growth from Consensus Metrix, although down from 24.3% in the second quarter. Profit and gross margin also exceeded estimates compiled by Bloomberg.

In 2020, powerful forces of change remapped all of our lives — collectively and privately, literally and metaphorically. The global Covid-19 pandemic upended the world, weaving a public health crisis together with political, economic and social upheaval. Cries for racial justice filled city streets. Floods, storms and fires fueled by climate change ravaged communities. And the virus forced us all to renegotiate how we navigate home, work and relationships. What does that look like for you? Earlier this year, we invited readers to create a map depicting life during the early throes of the pandemic. Now, we want to expand the scope of that project. We’re inviting you, our readers, to create a homemade map of your life, community, workplace or broader surroundings as you experienced them in 2020. Show us how the extraordinary changes of this year have shown up in your life. Or, try to envision how this year will impact 2021. Perhaps you want to map the city you hope to see — changes in architecture, transportation or public space — or how you imagine, hope or fear humanity might be changed due to this collectively lived experience. Your map can be as straightforward or subjective as you wish. We welcome your creativity: Any medium, as long as you can transmit it in an image file, is welcome.  To participate in this project, create your map and then answer a few questions about it via our survey form, where we also provide further details about how to submit an image of your map to us. If you participated in the first round of this project, we invite you to submit another map and tell us how life has changed since you last documented it for us.  We’ll publish a selection of these reader-submitted images and map stories on our website as part of an archival mapping project that documents the complexity of 2020 for people around the world. We are also looking for maps to include in a forthcoming book based off the project. Our goal is to feature an inclusive and diverse set of maps, so please help us expand our reach by sharing this callout with friends, family, neighbors, coworkers and classmates.  The deadline to submit your survey and map is Monday, Dec. 14, 2020. For regular updates on this project and other mapping-related news, subscribe to our newsletter, MapLab.

A Michigan county that includes Detroit reversed its decision not to certify election results amid a national uproar over an earlier vote to withhold approval, Michigan Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson said Tuesday night. The Board of Canvassers for Wayne County, Michigan’s largest, initially split 2-2 on a vote, with the two Republican members voting against certification. But Benson said on CNN that the board voted again on Tuesday night, unanimously this time, to certify the results but also asking state officials to conduct an audit of some precincts.

Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will be required by their regulator to hold hundreds of billions of dollars in capital to protect against losses, a step considered crucial to freeing the mortgage giants from U.S. control. The Federal Housing Finance Agency rule finalized Wednesday stipulates how much of a capital cushion the companies would have to maintain against their assets as fully private entities in order to weather a financial crisis. The combined total could exceed $280 billion, and Fannie and Freddie would likely need to sell shares and retain earnings for years to raise the funds.

The Pennsylvania Supreme Court said it will consider claims by President Donald Trump’s campaign that around 8,000 Philadelphia mail-in ballots should be disqualified because they weren’t filled out properly. According to the campaign, the ballots should be tossed because the voters signed but did not further hand-write their names, addresses or dates on the outside of the return envelopes. A Philadelphia court denied the campaign’s request on Friday, noting voters’ names and addresses were already pre-printed on the envelopes and that state election law was ambiguous on what it means to “fill out” ballots.

Sign up here for our new personal finance newsletter and follow us @Wealth on Twitter. Deutsche Bank AG has tightened lending conditions for wealthy clients since the onset of the coronavirus pandemic, even as demand for loans to the world’s rich rebounds, according to the head of its International Private Bank.

Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter One of the biggest lenders to South African farmers can’t take on new clients or meet half the needs of existing customers until it gets another government bailout to keep operating.

JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s widely followed debt indexes will exclude new bonds from Chinese companies that fall under sanctions announced last week by Donald Trump’s administration. The decision applies to new debt, taps or re-openings by impacted issuers, JPMorgan said in a note to clients on Tuesday. Existing bonds of sanctioned companies will remain in the indexes for now, but JPMorgan will re-evaluate their eligibility “once there is more clarity on the impact to benchmark replication.” The bank declined to comment further when contacted by Bloomberg on Wednesday.

As optimism about a coronavirus vaccine drives a shift away from technology shares, one such stock in India keeps rallying as market watchers bet its investments in startups will start to pay off. Info Edge India Ltd. climbed to a record on Wednesday and is the top gainer this month on the National Stock Exchange’s 10-member IT index. The company runs Naukri.com, the nation’s leading job-hunting platform, and has investments in at least 23 startups, according to its website. It owns about a fifth of Zomato, the largest Indian web-based food delivery platform that counts Jack Ma’s Ant Group among investors.

The Bank of Thailand signaled it will focus on tackling a rally in the nation’s currency, while keeping its benchmark interest rate unchanged for a fourth straight meeting to save limited policy space. The bank’s Monetary Policy Committee “expressed concerns over the rapid appreciation of the baht as this affected the fragile economic recovery,” it said after its meeting Wednesday, adding that it will hold a briefing Friday on measures to address the issue. The currency dropped as much as 0.6% against the dollar after the statement.

For a fresh perspective on the stories that matter for Australian business and politics, sign up for our new weekly newsletter. South Australia announced a six-day lockdown to help contain a growing cluster of Covid-19 infections, imposing the nation’s strictest state-wide stay-at-home orders since the pandemic began.

President Donald Trump’s lawyer Rudy Giuliani described at length to a federal judge in Pennsylvania a vast but vague Democratic conspiracy to steal the election that justified the invalidation of hundreds of thousands of votes -- enough to flip the state from President-elect Joe Biden to Trump. But U.S. District Judge Matthew Brann cut straight to the heart of the matter, wondering aloud why it would be reasonable to throw out so many valid ballots -- Giuliani at one point said 1.5 million would have to go -- based on allegations that some votes were merely counted improperly.

Denmark’s response to a coronavirus mutation in its mink population has just cost a Cabinet minister his job. Mogens Jensen, the 57-year-old minister for food and veterinary affairs, is stepping down after losing parliament’s support, according to a statement issued by his office on Wednesday.

Nissan Motor Co. is set to start final assembly of cars in Ghana, responding to new legislation aimed at turning the West African country into an automotive hub for the region’s 380 million people. The Yokohama-based company is partnering with Japan Motors Trading Company Ltd., a Ghanaian car dealership, to put together the Nissan Navara pickup in Accra, the capital, Nissan said in a statement Wednesday.

Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp. warned that German media giant Bertelsmann AG could have trouble getting regulatory approval to buy Simon & Schuster, which is up for sale in a bidding process wrapping up soon. “It will clearly be a serious antitrust issue” if Bertelsmann tries to acquire the publisher, News Corp. Chief Executive Officer Robert Thomson said at the company’s annual meeting Wednesday. “However cute and clever the structure, if Bertelsmann is a beneficiary, it will be a book behemoth and this will certainly be a profound antitrust issue for the entire book industry and no doubt for authors around the world.”

JPMorgan Chase & Co. expects 2021 to be the first time more green, social, and sustainability debt is sold in dollars than euros. Europe has been the dominant market for green financing, helped by stricter emissions regulations and investors that have been much quicker and more aggressive in adopting environmental investing principles. However, issuance of environmental, social and governance bonds in dollars is gaining momentum with a broader swath of U.S. issuers and investors.

Bitcoin has one of its wealthiest backers yet. Ricardo Salinas Pliego, Mexico’s third-richest person, said in a Twitter post Tuesday he’s invested a chunk of his liquid assets in the world’s biggest cryptocurrency.

President Donald Trump deepened his purge of officials who have contradicted his unfounded claims of widespread voter fraud, firing a top cybersecurity expert whose agency called the Nov. 3 election “the most secure in American history.” In a tweet Tuesday evening, Trump said he was finished with Christopher Krebs -- the former Microsoft Corp. executive who became the first director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, known as CISA.

Lithuania’s likely next prime minister, Ingrida Simonyte, said women will occupy about half of ministerial posts in her government, making it one of the world’s most gender-balanced. The lineup, announced Wednesday, stands in sharp contrast to the outgoing cabinet, which for eight months last year was the only one in the European Union to contain only men. While gender issues are typically higher on the agenda of western European countries, Lithuania follows Serbia in seeking a government where jobs are evenly divided between the sexes.

People in England should prepare for tough coronavirus restrictions in December and January if the rules are to be relaxed for a short period over Christmas, a public health chief said. Susan Hopkins, deputy director of Public Health England (PHE), said on Wednesday that government scientific advice has shown “for every day that we release [measures] we will need two days of tighter restrictions.”

South Africa’s government will get its stretched finances back on track and avoid a sovereign debt crisis, according to President Cyril Ramaphosa. “I am certain that we will be able to bring our debt levels down and avoid what you could call a debt crisis because we are focused,” Ramaphosa said in an interview with Bloomberg Television at an investment conference in Johannesburg on Wednesday. “A country that needs to grow needs to reduce its debt.”

Follow us  @middleeast for more news on the region. Saudi Arabia will raise its minimum wage for citizens by a third to 4,000 riyals ($1,066), according to a statement by the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Development.

Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Riots erupted in the Ugandan capital after the authorities arrested Bobi Wine, a pop star-turned-politician who’s running against President Yoweri Museveni in elections scheduled for January.

Pfizer Inc. said a final analysis of clinical-trial data showed its Covid-19 vaccine was 95% effective, paving the way for the company to apply this week for the first U.S. regulatory authorization for a coronavirus shot. The U.S. drugmaker and partner BioNTech SE said their vaccine protected people of all ages and ethnicities, with no significant safety problems so far in a trial that includes almost 44,000 participants. Pfizer shares were up 2% at 11:25 a.m. in New York, with BioNTech American depositary receipts gaining 5.3%. The update is the latest in a string of promising developments on the vaccine front in recent days. Moderna Inc.’s rival shot appears equally effective, judging from data published earlier this week, and a third contender, from AstraZeneca Plc and the University of Oxford, is expected to release trial results soon. Read More: Encouraging Breakthroughs Offer Hope for Controlling Virus Pfizer and its German partner now plan a filing with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration by Friday at the latest, BioNTech Chief Executive Officer Ugur Sahin said in a Bloomberg Television interview. Documents have already been filed with the European Medicines Agency, which is conducting a rolling review, he said. “There are almost daily phone calls and document exchange” with the European regulator, Sahin said. “I am confident that based on the positive data we have generated today, all authorities -- the FDA, the EMA and other regulatory authorities -- will really push to get this done as quickly as possible.” WATCH: BioNTech CEO Ugur Sahin says they’ll will apply for emergency authorization in the U.S. Source: Bloomberg) The Pfizer-BioNTech data shows 170 trial participants contracted Covid-19 overall. Eight participants who got the vaccine fell ill, while 162 cases were seen among those who got the placebo. The shot helped to prevent severe disease, according to the analysis, with nine of 10 severe cases in the trial occurring in the placebo group. The vaccine’s efficacy in people older than 65 was more than 94%, the companies said. Most people who received the shot tolerated it well. Severe fatigue was seen in 3.8% of volunteers after the second dose in the two-shot regimen, and 2% of people had a severe headache after the second dose. But those were the only severe side effects that occurred in at least 2% of people, according to the data. The results “appear to confirm a highly impressive efficacy profile for the vaccine and a side-effect profile that appears very reasonable given the vaccine’s benefits,” Mizuho analyst Vamil Divan wrote in a research note. Pfizer and BioNTech said last week that an initial readout showed the vaccine was more than 90% effective. The news helped spark a broad stock-market rally on hopes that the shot could help control a pandemic that has killed more than 1.3 million people worldwide. On Monday, Moderna released its own promising results and said it expects to be able to apply for emergency authorization in the U.S. within weeks. Read More: Covid shots barrel toward finish line in 300-day science feat On Tuesday, Pfizer Chief Executive Officer Albert Bourla said at a conference that the companies had gathered the two-month safety follow-up data required by the FDA. Both the Moderna and the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines are based on messenger RNA, a new type of vaccine technology that is able to be deployed very quickly. It essentially transforms the body’s cells into tiny vaccine-making machines. The vaccines instruct cells to make copies of the coronavirus spike protein, stimulating the production of protective antibodies. — With assistance by Blaise Robinson, Guy Johnson, Alix Steel, and Naomi Kresge

Deep Isolation Inc. raised $20 million from backers including NAC International Inc. to develop its system for storing deadly nuclear waste miles below the surface of the earth. As part of the Series A funding round, NAC will also get a seat on Deep Isolation’s board, according to a statement Wednesday. The deal values the Berkeley, California-based company at $60 million.

Republican state assemblyman Andrew Garbarino won the U.S. House race in New York’s 2nd Congressional District, keeping the Long Island seat in GOP control. Garbarino beat Democrat and military veteran Jackie Gordon, who conceded the race, according to a statement posted on Twitter. Garbarino will succeed Republican Representative Peter King, who is retiring.

Follow Bloomberg on LINE messenger for all the business news and analysis you need. Thailand’s cabinet has approved amending existing legislation to pave the way for legalizing abortion in the Southeast Asian nation.

Sales of Sony Corp. and Microsoft Corp.’s new gaming consoles fell short of their predecessors during their first week in Japan, suggesting persistent supply bottlenecks will hamper the debut of two of this holiday season’s most hotly anticipated gadgets. Sony sold 118,085 PlayStation 5 consoles from its debut on Nov. 12 to Nov. 15, roughly a third of the PS4’s performance over launch weekend, Famitsu estimated. Microsoft tallied 20,534 units of its Xbox Series X and S during the six days from its start on Nov. 10, also shy of the 23,562 that the Xbox One managed during its first few days, the research house said.

Europe’s largest listed asset manager Amundi SA will partner with endowments at Cambridge and Oxford colleges to start a low-carbon index tracking fund. The Amundi ESG Global Low Carbon Fund will aim to replicate performance on the MSCI All Country World Index. It will exclude fossil fuels and thermal coal, and aim to improve green revenues and reduce potential exposure to controversies, the company said.

Indian stocks ended the day with gains after a volatile trading session as investors continued to snap up shares on expectations of a domestic economic recovery. The S&P BSE Sensex closed up 0.5% at 44,180.05 in Mumbai after falling as much as 0.4%, while the NSE Nifty 50 Index also climbed by a similar magnitude. Both gauges closed at all-time highs.

Chinese Premier Li Keqiang expressed confidence in the economy, highlighting its stability in a world mired in recession and grappling with a resurgence in coronavirus infections. China’s economy will probably grow this year and surpass 100 trillion yuan ($15.3 trillion) despite “great difficulties” in keeping it running smoothly, Li wrote in an article published Wednesday in People’s Daily newspaper. The economy has shifted from a stage of rapid growth to one of high-quality development, he said.

Esports facilities providers have long been searching for the right business model — a feat made more challenging by Covid-19. Now one esports company is following the likes of Netflix Inc. and Amazon.com Inc. into subscriptions. As the pandemic lockdowns hit, Nerd Street Gamers shut down all its esports facilities between March and July and vastly expanded the number of online esports tournaments it offers to stay afloat. The bet has paid off, said Chief Executive Officer John Fazio, with the company posting some year-over-year revenue growth.

Fund giants including Vanguard Group Inc. and Fidelity Investments Inc. have been given low ratings by research firm Morningstar Inc. in its first in-depth assessment on incorporating environmental, social and governance factors into investment decisions. The research firm rated 40 asset managers around the world and found that more than a quarter of those do not integrate ESG at all or do so in a very limited way, according to a report on Tuesday. It ranked firms and funds in a four-tier scale from Leaders and Advanced, to Basic and Low.

Arizona’s top elections official says she’s received violent threats. Alaska voters approved a change that could complicate the 2022 Senate race. And President Donald Trump’s supporters say they believe his false claims of massive election fraud. There are 20 days until the deadline for states to certify their results, 26 days until the Electoral College meets, 49 days until Congress certifies the results and 63 days until inauguration.

President Donald Trump’s campaign revised a pivotal Pennsylvania lawsuit seeking to block certification of the state’s election results, adding a proposal that the Republican-controlled state legislature choose the winner instead of voters. “This court should enter an order, declaration, and/or injunction that the results of the 2020 presidential general election are defective and providing for the Pennsylvania General Assembly to choose Pennsylvania’s electors,” the campaign said in the 86-page amended complaint it filed Wednesday evening.

Julian Assange has been placed into lockdown in his London prison cell after an outbreak of Covid-19. A number of cases have been reported in Assange’s wing at Belmarsh prison, a spokesman for the WikiLeaks founder said in a statement. All prisoners and staff are to be tested for the virus, and exercise and showers have been prohibited.

U.S. banks and consumer financial stocks are poised for gains on the prospect of Covid-19 vaccines, more lending and a shift to value stocks. That’s according to Jefferies Global Equity Strategist Sean Darby, who upgraded his view on the financials sector to “bullish” from “modestly bullish.”

Jerusalem (AP) -- Israeli warplanes struck Iran-linked targets in Syria overnight after troops uncovered roadside bombs along the frontier in the Golan Heights, the Israeli military said Wednesday. Syrian state media said the strikes killed three Syrian soldiers. A Syrian war monitoring group said the strikes killed 10, including the three Syrian soldiers and at least five Iranians. The report could not be independently verified, and an Iranian official denied any Iranians were killed in the strikes.

Gold fell as a rebounding dollar and positive vaccine developments dented demand for the metal as a haven. Bullion fell as much as 0.9% earlier after Pfizer Inc. said it plans to apply for the first U.S. regulatory authorization for a coronavirus shot within days. Gold investors took advantage of the price decline, buying as the greenback extended losses and expectations mounted for further virus lockdowns. Bullion came under additional pressure later in the session as the dollar regained some footing, with the Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index little changed after falling as much as 0.3%.

Welcome to Wednesday, Americas. Here’s the latest news and analysis from Bloomberg Economics to help you start the day:

President-elect Joe Biden said Wednesday the General Services Administration’s delay in allowing the official presidential transition to begin could set back the effort to distribute a coronavirus vaccine by weeks or months. “We’ve been unable to get access to the kinds of things we need to know about -- the depth of the stockpiles, we know there’s not much at all,” Biden said in a virtual meeting with front-line workers, adding that his team doesn’t know the administration’s plan for distributing a vaccine.

The Covid-19 pandemic has sent Americans searching for larger living spaces for the work-from-home era, accelerating demographic shifts to the suburbs and attracting new pools of capital to single-family rental homes. It’s also sparked a mini-boom in rental-home construction. Builders started work on roughly 14,000 rental houses during the third quarter, according to a National Association of Home Builders analysis of census data.

Lowe’s Cos Inc. slumped after reporting third-quarter earnings that narrowly missed analysts’ expectations, underscoring rising costs at home-improvement retailers that also hit rival Home Depot Inc. Earnings per share came in at $1.98 at Lowe’s, excluding some items, while analysts anticipated $2, on average. That’s the first time the company has missed on that metric since the period ended May 2019, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The outlook for the current quarter also fell short of some estimates.

The chief executive officer of the world’s biggest container shipping company says trade relations between Europe and the U.S. will probably become more “collaborative” under the presidency of Joe Biden. Soren Skou, the CEO of A.P. Moller-Maersk A/S, said he doesn’t expect the global trade outlook to change fundamentally, regardless of who’s in the White House.

Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan spoke out against high interest rates one day before the central bank holds its first policy meeting under a new governor expected to restore monetary discipline. “We shouldn’t let our investors get crushed by high interest,” Erdogan said at a meeting with businesses in Ankara. The Turkish lira briefly extended its drop to as much as 1.1% after his statement.

Vaccines are on the horizon but won’t be available soon enough to make the holidays normal again. With virus cases surging, hospitals filling up and more U.S. states imposing restrictions, Americans are likely to drive a lot less this Thanksgiving. Only 35% will travel by car this year, down from 65% a year ago, according to survey from retail fuel tracker GasBuddy.

European car sales fell last month as countries reimposed restrictions to contain the spread of Covid-19, snuffing out a short-lived recovery in demand. New-car registrations dropped 7.1% in October, the European Automobile Manufacturers Association said Wednesday. Aside from a small gain in September, sales have been in decline all year and are down 27% through the first 10 months.

One of China’s largest asset managers is targeting to almost double the foreign cash it oversees as the nation’s economic rise and financial opening increases demand. China Asset Management Co. will seek to grow such assets to at least $10 billion over the next few years, up from about $6 billion, Richard Pan, head of Global Capital Investment at the Beijing-based firm, said in an interview. Its assets under the Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor plan -- a program that allows foreigners to invest in China -- have risen from $1 billion in 2013.

An exchange-traded fund betting on U.S. dollar gains is shrinking rapidly as the currency’s outlook darkens. Total assets in the Invesco DB US Dollar Index Bullish Fund (ticker UUP) have dwindled to $337 million, down from a peak of $1.04 billion in April, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. More than $68 million exited the ETF on Monday in its biggest single-day outflow in a month.

The  billions of dollars plowed into  Covid-19 vaccines have yielded promising results in tests by Pfizer, BioNTech, and Moderna—welcome news in the battle against the  global outbreak. But for scientists studying another respiratory ailment known to trigger pandemics—influenza—the news is equally important, because it augurs an acceleration of their research. “What you are seeing are several technologies that will be tested all at once,” says Gregory Glenn, research chief for Novavax Inc., which is working on Covid and flu vaccines. “It’s kind of the world’s greatest technology bake-off: You’re going to see how the vaccines perform.” The influenza viruses that infect people change constantly, so twice a year—around the peak of the flu seasons in the Northern and Southern hemisphere winters—the World Health Organization makes its best guess about the strains likely to emerge the following year. Pharmaceutical companies use the information to develop vaccines and soon begin production, typically by injecting viruses into hundreds of millions of chicken eggs where they grow for a few days before extraction. After several weeks of further processing, in late summer manufacturers send the flu shots to clinics and pharmacies for distribution to patients throughout the fall.  By flu season Data: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Flu season is the fall of the year specified and the winter of the following year Some years the procedure works reasonably well; other times its performance is abysmal. Vaccines have been anywhere from 10% to 60% effective over the past 15 years, according to U.S. infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci. “Once the vaccine production process is initiated, it is nearly impossible to begin anew if a different strain emerges,” Fauci told Congress last year. The technology for incubating viruses in eggs was developed in the 1940s by an Army-backed research team co-lead by Jonas Salk, who later became famous for his polio vaccine. A drawback of the process is that viruses can mutate while they’re growing in eggs, so they don’t always offer protection from the illnesses circulating among humans. Egg-based “technology got kind of stuck in time, a victim of its own success,” says John Shiver, vaccine development chief at Sanofi Pasteur Inc., the No. 1 maker of flu shots. Some techniques being explored by Covid researchers are fundamentally different. Instead of virus proteins, the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines contain so-called  messenger RNA, or mRNA—genetic instructions that prompt the body to produce disease-specific antigens, effectively turning it into its own vaccine factory. The technology is still new, and a successful debut against Covid would  bolster public confidence in mRNA vaccines for flu and other diseases, says Meagan Fitzpatrick, an assistant professor at the University of Maryland’s medical school. “This is going to be a huge boost,” she says. “The biggest hurdles will already have been overcome.” A second flu technology poised to get a lift from Covid research is the so-called recombinant vaccine, an idea being pursued by Novavax and Sanofi. In this process, scientists remove from the virus DNA that triggers a response from the immune system. Technicians combine the DNA with genetic material that can penetrate cells of insects such as moths, which grow proteins well and are easy to cultivate. These then produce antigens that can be harvested for use in a vaccine. A subsidiary of Sanofi signed a  $226 million deal last December with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to expand production capacity of recombinant flu vaccines at a facility in Pennsylvania. Growing fears of what some are calling a “twindemic” have sparked  record interest in flu shots this year, with almost 200 million doses available in the U.S., an increase of as much as 13% from 2019. Although not being used for Covid research, so-called cell-culture vaccines—which also avoid using eggs—are benefiting from that interest. In this approach, the virus is grown in cells originally derived from mammals, which are preferable because the virus doesn’t seek to adapt to its avian host. Australia’s CSL Ltd., the No. 2 maker of flu shots, has expanded annual production of cell-based vaccines at a North Carolina plant from 2 million doses to 30 million, and it says it will largely phase out egg-based flu vaccines in the U.S. by 2026. On Nov. 16, CSL said it will spend about $585 million on a new cell-based facility in Australia to make flu vaccines and anti-venoms for snake bites. Only a handful of companies have embraced the cell technology, which requires a lot of expertise and upfront investment. Some in the business say there’s scant reason to give up on flu prevention methods they know. While Sanofi plans to expand production of its recombinant flu vaccines, it will continue to use eggs as well. And GlaxoSmithKline Plc says eggs enable fast and inexpensive production of the millions of doses needed to make sufficient supplies every year. Still, the renewed focus on influenza and the money being spent on Covid prevention will hasten the shift away from eggs as new technologies become more widely accepted, says Leo Poon, head of public-health laboratory sciences at the University of Hong Kong. “That will definitely help develop better and more effective vaccines for other diseases,” he says. Pfizer, BioNTech, and Moderna, which don’t offer flu shots today, are already applying mRNA vaccines to more than just Covid. The technology “will also disrupt the flu market,” Mikael Dolsten, Pfizer’s chief scientific officer, said on a call with analysts in July. “We see a very large opportunity.” Read next:  Coronavirus Long Haulers Tell Us Their Symptoms and the Aftereffects of Disease

Welcome to Thursday, Asia. Here’s the latest news and analysis from Bloomberg Economics to help you start the day:

Unprecedented central bank action has pushed out a wave of defaults rather than quashed it, according to Carlyle Group Inc. The credit market was flooded with liquidity in the early stages of the pandemic as banks in the U.S. and Europe stepped in with a “speed and ferocity we’ve never seen before,” Jason Thomas, head of global research at the $230 billion asset manager, said in an interview.

Sign up to receive the Green Daily daily newsletter and follow us @climate. The European Union may have to delay a decision on a stricter 2030 climate goal as a quarrel over strings attached to a jointly financed stimulus package risks spilling over into other policy areas.

Starbucks Corp. announced a round of pay hikes for its baristas -- a sign the coffee giant is moving to get ahead of the rising wages in the U.S. The company will raise wages by at least 10% for baristas, shift supervisors and cafe attendants that were hired on or before Sept. 14. The increase will go into effect on Dec. 14. Starting pay rates will rise 5% “so our store managers can continue to attract and retain new talent,” Starbucks Executive Vice President Rossann Williams said in a memo seen by Bloomberg.

Sign up here for our new personal finance newsletter and follow us @Wealth on Twitter. Stephen Lansdown continues to pare his stake in Hargreaves Lansdown Plc, the financial firm he co-founded with fellow British billionaire Peter Hargreaves.

Thailand’s parliament rejected a push by pro-democracy groups for a constitutional amendment to reduce the powers of the nation’s monarchy, potentially escalating a monthslong anti-government protests. The lawmakers instead voted for setting up a charter rewriting committee that will skip any review of chapters governing the monarchy, the most powerful institution in Thailand. The roadmap for amendment proposed by a rights group, which the protesters support, failed to secure enough support from the lawmakers.

Crown Resorts Ltd. has delayed next month’s planned start of gaming operations at its new $1.5 billion Sydney casino while a money-laundering inquiry continues. The New South Wales Independent Liquor and Gaming Authority earlier Wednesday said there were ongoing concerns about Crown’s suitability to run the casino and that evidence heard by the probe was “extremely concerning.”

(Bloomberg) -- Welcome to Wednesday, Europe. Here’s the latest news and analysis from Bloomberg Economics to help you start the day:

Thailand will extend a nationwide state of emergency through Jan. 15 to prevent a resurgence in coronavirus infections during the peak New Year’s travel period. A meeting of the Covid-19 task force chaired by Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-Ocha approved the extension to help authorities enforce mandatory quarantines and streamline disease-control plans, Taweesilp Witsanuyotin, a spokesman for the panel, told reporters in Bangkok Wednesday.

California on Wednesday reallocated $600 million of private activity bonds formerly awarded to Fortress Investment Group’s Las Vegas tourist train to affordable housing needs, a win for developers trying to ease the state’s severe shortage of homes. The company’s Brightline West venture earlier this year had received its entire request of the limited resource, as well as bonds from Nevada, and offered as much as $3.2 billion of debt leveraged from the allocations. But it failed to get enough investors on board, letting California reclaim the bonds.

House Democrats voted to stick with Nancy Pelosi as their leader and nominee for speaker, placing confidence in her to unite a fractious caucus despite surprise losses in this month’s election that have emboldened congressional Republicans. Pelosi, 80, must still win a majority of votes from the full House to remain as speaker when the new Congress begins in January. She will have a slimmer majority next year, which complicates her path to securing enough support to win the gavel on the first round of voting.

U.K. companies are turning to cheaper overseas labor to complete their post-Brexit customs paperwork, creating jobs in countries such as Romania and India due to a shortage of trained staff in Britain. Anticipating a surge in demand for its services, Xpediator Plc, which handles freight flows for international companies, has been hiring workers in Romania. Dave Gladen, the firm’s group marketing manager, says the country has a deep pool of expertise in the EU’s customs rules because it only joined the bloc in 2007.

The United Arab Emirates ratcheted up tension with oil allies in OPEC+, with officials privately questioning the benefits of being in the producers’ alliance and even considering whether to leave it. The UAE has not said publicly it’s debating its membership, let alone planning to exit. And officials briefed the media under condition they would not be named, allowing room for maneuver if they later want to distance themselves from the comments.

Oil edged lower with growing virus restrictions and signs the labor-market recovery may be slowing in the U.S. dampens the near-term demand outlook. Futures fell as much as 1.8% in New York before closing little changed as the dollar erased gains late in the trading session, boosting the appeal for commodities priced in the currency. U.S. equities also staged a rally.

Joe Biden’s victory in the U.S. presidential election is positive for companies committed to fighting the climate crisis, Unilever Chief Executive Officer Alan Jope said. “The capital markets and investors need to invest in properly run sustainable and green businesses,” Jope said at the Bloomberg New Economy Forum Wednesday. “In that regard, an administration in the biggest economy in the world that reenters the climate-change debate and a green recovery of course is going to be good for the system.”

Compass, the SoftBank-backed real estate brokerage that has been laying the groundwork for a potential initial public offering, elected LinkedIn Chief Financial Officer Steve Sordello to its board. Sordello will bring an “invaluable perspective” to Compass, the New York-based company’s founder and Chief Executive Officer Robert Reffkin said in a statement. “His experience guiding LinkedIn over the past 13 years has given him a unique perspective on how to best manage a fast-growing business that serves a large group of driven professionals.”

Sign up here for our daily coronavirus newsletter on what you need to know, and subscribe to our Covid-19 podcast for the latest news and analysis. A whole range of pandemic aid programs are set to expire in the new year, leaving millions of Americans without the government support that’s helped keep them afloat -- and threatening to hold back a rebounding economy.

Southwest Airlines Co. sent another 403 workers warnings that they could be furloughed, as the carrier struggles to shave $500 million from labor costs and avoid the first involuntary layoffs in its 49-year history. The airline expects the mechanics and other employees to be laid off in January if it can’t reach agreements with unions, according to an emailed statement Wednesday. Since seniority rights mean Southwest can’t know which individuals ultimately will be let go, it sent another 1,503 workers notice that they could be affected.

Fix Price, Russia’s biggest dollar-store retailer, is considering an initial public offering of shares after winning the backing of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. early this year. The chain is looking at London and Moscow as listing venues for a sale in the first half of next year, and the valuation may be about $6 billion, according to two people familiar with the matter, declining to be identified as talks are private.

New York City’s public school shutdown and the prospect of a crippled mass transit agency brings a new sense of vulnerability to a city that had been making a comeback from its dark days as the world’s Covid-19 epicenter. And more bad news is imminent. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said the city’s rising test rate could force indoor dining, gyms and some other nonessential businesses to close, and Mayor Bill de Blasio said he expects those actions to be taken “quite soon.” “The two most important things about getting back to work and getting back to normal are school and transportation,” said Jeff Blau, chief executive officer of Related Companies, the New York City-based real estate developer. “Today was a bit of a double whammy.” The moves threaten the city’s economy just as it was showing signs of improvement. Before Covid-19 struck, the city’s unemployment rate was 3.4%. New York, the early center of the U.S. outbreak, saw the rate touch a high of 20.3% in June. By September, with the reopening of schools and many businesses, it had partly recovered to 14.1%. Shares of real estate firms, lenders and other New York City-linked companies accelerated declines after de Blasio’s schools announcement. It comes as Wall Street’s biggest banks may scale back their workforce in 2021: Goldman Sachs Group Inc. plans to cut its headcount for the second time in just three months. For the parents of hundreds of thousands of students, the crisis was immediate: They must find alternative child-care arrangements or adjust their work schedules by Thursday, after the mayor said the city had reached a 3% positivity rate that triggered the halt of at least two weeks to in-class instruction. Workers also face the prospect of longer commutes, after New York’s Metropolitan Transportation Authority said it will have to slash subways and buses by 40% and chop commuter rail service by half if aid doesn’t come from Washington. “The Covid-19 health crisis happened fast, but the economic consequences are going to roll out over time and the news is going to get worse before it starts to turn around,” said Kathryn Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City, a civic organization comprised of corporate chief executives. New York City came to a near-standstill earlier this year as Cuomo shut schools and nonessential businesses to slow the spread of Covid-19. At its peak in April, the city was reporting more than 5,000 cases a day. By August, it had controlled the spread to fewer than 300 daily cases. A recent nationwide resurgence associated with the colder weather has brought that number back up, to a seven-day average of 1,212 as of Nov. 16. “We are resolved to keep fighting,” de Blasio said Wednesday at a news briefing. “We will overcome this moment.” De Blasio had warned parents last week that schools could close as soon as Nov. 16 if the city’s average positive-test rate reached 3% over the weekend. Though the rate stayed below that threshold for days, parents were on watch for updated numbers that would trigger school closings the next day. New York City has the largest public-school system in the U.S., and its decision to offer at least some in-class instruction was watched around the nation as other districts hesitated to follow its lead. The closing forces almost 300,000 students who had been participating to join the rest of the city’s 1.1 million public-school students in all-online instruction at home. The schools’ shutdown begins days after the deadline for parents’ one chance to switch their children from all-remote to the blended program. Educators say face-to-face learning is more effective than at-home instruction, especially for younger and special-needs students. Tens of thousands remain without mobile devices and adequate broadband service, a problem school officials say may not be fixed until later in the school year. Empty desks in a classroom at a public elementary school in the Brooklyn borough of New York. Photographer: Jeenah Moon/Bloomberg “It’s crazy,” said Kanika Ingram, a Verizon field technician whose husband is a U.S. Postal Service manager. “We’re looking at Plans B through Z, because my husband and I both must work outside the home, and I have three weeks left of reduced paid leave.” The challenge for workers will only get harder as the MTA may slash service without $12 billion of federal funds as the coronavirus pandemic has decimated revenue and ridership. Read More: New York MTA Warns of 40% Subway Cut, Shedding 9,300 JobsFor those living in the New York City region, mass transit is a way of life. Shopkeepers, restaurants and businesses depend on it to stay afloat. The drastic scaleback will dampen the city’s ability to lure workers from their homes and get them back into empty office buildings and move people around the city for shopping, entertainment and dining. Before the pandemic, about 59% of all workers in Manhattan used public transportation, compared with 5% in the nation as a whole, according to the U.S. Census.“Massive cuts to the MTA would have a devastating effect on New York City businesses, from offices to retail to hospitality, and undoubtedly result in more bankruptcies of both businesses and individuals,” said David Wander, a bankruptcy partner at Davidoff Hutcher & Citron LLP. “With significantly reduced mass transit service, the value of having a business here is diminished, especially when you factor in the high costs of operating in the city.”The service cuts would also mean laying off 9,367 MTA employees and imposing fare and toll increases. Those changes would reverberate across the region, resulting in a $65 billion loss in gross domestic product annually for the New York City region and costing a potential 450,000 jobs by 2022, according to an NYU Rudin Center for Transportation Policy and Management report.The MTA may implement the service cuts and layoffs as early as May, with major changes to commuting times. Riders would pay higher fares while waiting 15 minutes on weekends for subways, see nearly a fourth of bus routes reduced and have peak-time commuter rail service cut to almost 30 minutes or even hourly. MTA’s board is set to vote on the 2021 budget, which includes the potential service and workforce changes, next month. But it was news of the schools closing that dragged down shares of New York City-linked companies. Office REITs Vornado Realty Trust, SL Green Realty Corp. and Empire State Realty Trust Inc. closed down more than 4% Wednesday. Apartment REITs Equity Residential and AvalonBay Communities Inc. also lost ground and Signature Bank dropped 3.9%. Investors have been assessing rising coronavirus cases across the U.S. with positive vaccine news over the past couple of weeks, weighing on shares of technology and other companies that benefit when people stay at home. New York City-exposed stocks are reversing gains from earlier this week after positive vaccine news from Moderna Inc. added to last week’s optimism about a return to pre-pandemic city living. Read more: NYC-Linked REITs, Lenders Fall as De Blasio Closes School System The city said the decision to shut down in-person instruction was made out of caution even though the virus has been absent from most classrooms, and the infection rate from conducting tens of thousands of random tests in city schools has remained below 1%. The order doesn’t apply to the city’s private schools, some of which have been offering in-class instruction to their youngest learners. In Manhattan, Lyceum Kennedy French American School plans to remain open, according to a letter from its chief operating officer to parents. All 69 Catholic schools in Brooklyn and Queens are staying open as well, according to a Twitter post. Read more: Private Schools Chart Own Path as De Blasio Shuts NYC System De Blasio’s announcement sparked confusion, because it came shortly after Cuomo had said the city’s average positivity was 2.5%. When asked about the disparity, Cuomo said there are “complex” differentials in state and city numbers that have to do with timing. Cuomo also noted that a 3% rate calculated by the state would put New York City in a designated orange zone that would have to shut indoor dining, gyms and other “high-risk,” nonessential businesses.  New York state reported 5,294 new cases for Nov. 17, which about a third of those -- 1,747 -- in New York City. Since the beginning of the outbreak, 574,072 people in the state have tested positive for the virus. The governor, who has the authority to stop schools from shutting, said he wouldn’t interfere with a 3% threshold that was agreed upon by city officials, parents and teachers. At the same time, he urged them to consider amending their plan to factor in the schools’ infection rates as well as the city’s. Commuters wear protective masks while riding a bus in New York. Photographer: Gabriela Bhaskar/Bloomberg “If the school is not spreading the virus or if the school has a much lower positivity rate than the surrounding area, then the school is not part of the problem,” Cuomo said Nov. 14. “You could argue that keeping the children in the school is part of the solution, rather than the children spending time on the street in the neighborhood where the infection rate is higher.” Closing the schools “has ancillary consequences that people don’t often think about,” the governor said. “You close the schools, you make it much harder for parents to go to work. Now they have to worry about who’s going to take care of the children.” Schools across the U.S. have been open for weeks, and so far relatively few appear to have spread Covid-19 among students or into wider communities. So far, the schools’ experience suggests that children are not major spreaders of the virus among each other, their families and others, as had been initially feared. Instead, they are more likely accurate reflections of conditions in the broader community. “You can’t really pull the school out from the community,” said Walter Gilliam, an education policy researcher at the Yale School of Medicine. “If the transmission rates are too high, there’s just almost nothing they could do to keep it from getting into schools.” United Federation of Teachers President Michael Mulgrew, who represents the city’s more than 90,000 public school staff, said the 3% threshold was established “to make sure that schools did not become centers to spread the coronavirus.” He called on New Yorkers to observe social distancing rules, wearing masks and other steps to “lower the infection rate so school buildings can re-open.” The 3% standard is part of the schools’ multiple lines of defense including masks physical distancing and hygiene. Officials don’t have enough information to know which rule could be scrapped or modified without risking a crisis, Jay Varma, de Blasio’s senior public health adviser, said Friday in an interview. “Our standard of evidence has to be higher than a guess,” he said. “We can’t say for sure that if we remove one part of this protocol that we can absolutely guarantee everything as safe.” On Wednesday, De Blasio said the city came back from a worse situation last spring and will reopen the schools. “If it takes tougher standards, we will live by those tougher standards,” he said. “Today is a tough day, but this is a temporary situation. This disease will be beaten in the course of this school year.” — With assistance by Amanda L Gordon, Kristine Owram, Keshia Clukey, and Eliza Ronalds-Hannon

The U.K. government made serious mistakes in the rush to procure billions of pounds of equipment and services in response to the coronavirus outbreak, according to the body that scrutinizes public spending. In a 46-page report published Wednesday, the National Audit Office said too many of the 8,600 contracts awarded in the early months of the pandemic lacked transparency and proper documentation, leaving questions over why some suppliers were chosen.

Fifteen months after completing its acquisition of the 21 Fox regional sports networks, Sinclair Broadcast Group Inc. has signed a deal to rename them using the Bally casino brand, a sign of just how intertwined betting has become with sports. The deal with Providence, Rhode Island-based Bally’s Corp. includes use of its brand in promotions on Sinclair’s 190 broadcast-TV stations, the Tennis Channel and its sports streaming service, called Stadium. In return, Sinclair will receive a naming-rights fee, shares in Bally’s and an agreement by the company to spend a percentage of its interactive advertising budget on Sinclair outlets, according to a statement released by the companies Wednesday.

Three ex-Hong Kong lawmakers were arrested in connection with a disruptive protest in the legislative chamber, as the Beijing-backed government ramps up pressure on the city’s beleaguered opposition. Eddie Chu, Raymond Chan and Ted Hui were arrested by police Wednesday morning, the former lawmakers wrote on their Facebook pages. The Hong Kong police confirmed it arrested three suspects matching the ages of the ex-lawmakers, citing allegations stemming from an attempt to disrupt a June vote in the Legislative Council on a measure banning criticism of the national anthem. The statement didn’t name the individuals.

Ghana’s government has denied interfering in a probe into the creation of a gold-royalties fund following the resignation of the special prosecutor who led the investigation. Special Prosecutor Martin Amidu resigned on Nov. 16, citing interference following the conclusion of a corruption-risk assessment into the state’s new fund. His office’s report challenged the government’s choice of advisers and the mode of valuation for the fund, which had its $500-million initial public offering suspended last month.

After years of upheaval, criminal charges and bankruptcy, California utility giant PG&E Corp. has placed its fate in the hands of a new chief executive with a record of reducing accidents, cutting costs and building bridges. Patricia K. Poppe, a General Motors Co. veteran who now runs the Michigan utility CMS Energy Corp., will be PG&E’s fourth leader in the past two years, taking over on Jan. 4., the company said Wednesday in a statement.

The Bank of Zambia kept its key interest rate at a record low to allow the impact of previous cuts to filter through the economy. The monetary policy committee held the rate at 8%, Governor Christopher Mvunga told reporters Wednesday in Lusaka, the capital, after leading his first meeting of the panel.

Cerberus Capital Management has shelved the sale of a $390 million commercial mortgage bond that packaged nearly junk-rated securities into new debt with top AAA grades, according to people with knowledge of the matter. Investors were demanding higher yields for the debt offering, said the people, who asked not to be identified because the information is private. The bond sale also struggled because of weak liquidity, and changing terms in the so-called repo market, they added.



China’s ability to keep selling more of its goods abroad means officials will be in no rush to rein in their strongest yuan in more than two years. The People’s Bank of China in November has refrained from using tools to limit the yuan’s advance, even as the currency heads for the longest run of monthly gains in six years. That’s a reversal from last month, when authorities made it cheaper to bet against the yuan and eased some control over the exchange rate, moves that were interpreted as part of Beijing’s effort to rein in appreciation.

Affirm Holdings Inc., which provides installment loans to online shoppers, filed for an initial public offering, reporting revenue gains and shrinking losses. The San Francisco-based company in its filing Wednesday listed the size of the offering as $100 million, a placeholder that will likely change.

Harvey Weinstein has a fever and is being monitored by the medical staff of the upstate New York prison where he’s serving a 23-year sentence for sexual assault, according to representatives of the once-powerful Hollywood producer. “We can neither confirm nor deny that Mr. Weinstein has tested positive for COVID-19,” Weinstein’s spokesman, Juda Engelmayer, and Craig Rothfeld, a prison consultant, said in a statement. Weinstein is an inmate at the Wende Correctional Facility located east of Buffalo, New York.

Judy Shelton’s nomination to the Federal Reserve board was left in limbo with little chance of revival Wednesday as the Senate prepared to leave Washington for the Thanksgiving holiday recess. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, confronted by the absence of two key Republican members, has scheduled no more votes for the week.

Peru’s interim president appointed veteran economist Waldo Mendoza as his finance minister in a bid to shore up investor confidence shaken by political turmoil. Interim President Francisco Sagasti swore in most of his 19-member ministerial team Wednesday after becoming the country’s third leader in little more than a week.

U.S. National Security Advisor Robert O’Brien is traveling to Vietnam and the Philippines this week as the Trump administration continues its efforts to counter China and deepen ties with the Southeast Asian nations, according to two U.S. officials. O’Brien has meetings with Vietnamese security officials in Hanoi on Saturday and will give remarks to students at Vietnam National University on Sunday.

The days of job security on Wall Street were short-lived. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s second round of several hundred firings in the course of three months is another sign that the pandemic pause on layoffs just kicked the cost-cutting can down the road. The bank and its biggest rivals have started to trim small numbers, but 2021 is expected to bring deeper cuts.

JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Jamie Dimon said U.S. lawmakers are failing the country in their inability to reach a compromise on fiscal stimulus. “We have this big debate: Is it $2.2 trillion, $1.5 trillion? You’ve got to be kidding me,” Dimon, the chief executive officer of the biggest U.S. bank, said at a virtual New York Times conference Wednesday. “Just split the baby and move on. This is childish behavior on the part of our politicians.”

Sign up to receive the Green Daily newsletter in your inbox every weekday. Intel Corp., Walt Disney Co., General Mills Inc., American Express Co., Amgen Inc. Five big names from five very different industries—yet they all have one thing in common: They are among a group of companies Goldman Sachs expects to benefit from the growing popularity of ESG investing.

Supporters of President Donald Trump whose claims of election fraud in Detroit and surrounding Wayne County were shot down by lower courts shouldn’t get to take their “grab-bag of falsehoods” before the Michigan Supreme Court, lawyers for the city argued. A judge rejected the lawsuit last Friday, saying affidavits claiming widespread fraud in vote counting at the TCF Center in Detroit were “rife with speculation and guess-work about sinister motives.” An appeals court also rejected the case, leading Trump backers to ask the high court to halt the certification or order an audit of the vote tally in Detroit, which heavily supported President-elect Joe Biden.

Whatever you tax, you discourage. Taxes on tobacco and alcohol discourage smoking and drinking, while taxes on gasoline discourage carbon emissions. Unfortunately those taxes hurt the poor most, since they spend a bigger portion of their income on those products. But nobody would argue that smoking, drinking, and warming the planet are things that society should be encouraging. In contrast, wireless communication is something that society wants more of. A cell phone is a lifeline in an emergency and an indispensable tool in daily life and business. For the 67% of low-income households that have no wired phone service at home, the cell phone is the only phone. Yet taxes, fees, and surcharges on cell phone service keep drifting higher. According to a study released Nov. 17 by the nonpartisan Tax Foundation, “A typical American household with four phones on a ‘family share’ plan, paying $100 per month for taxable wireless service, can expect to pay about $270 per year in taxes, fees, and surcharges—up from $260 in 2019.” Taxes, fees, and surcharges make up 22.6% of the national-average bill, “the highest rate ever,” according to the Tax Foundation, which has been reporting on wireless taxes annually since 2003. For middle- and upper-income households, those extra costs are an annoyance. For the poor, they’re crushing.  Competition has pushed down the pre-tax cost of cell phone service by 26% since 2008, but subscribers haven’t enjoyed the benefit because wireless taxes have risen about 50% over the same period, the Tax Foundation says. This year, the main reason for the increase is a jump in the federal Universal Service Fund tax rate, from 9.1% to 9.8%. That’s a 9% increase in the rate on top of a 36% increase in 2019. Some of the money in that fund subsidizes low-income families’ wireless costs, but only a portion. A lot goes for building communications infrastructure in rural areas, which helps the rural poor but also rich second-home owners. This is one issue on which conservatives and liberals can make common cause. The Tax Foundation leans center-right. “Our main goal is to make sure that the tax code does not interfere in businesses’ ability to succeed and consumers’ ability to choose for themselves,” Ulrik Boesen, a Tax Foundation senior policy analyst who co-wrote the study, says in an interview. On wireless taxation, he says, “we do agree with more liberal organizations.”

The Swiss could be about to place themselves at the vanguard of European efforts to hold multinational corporations responsible for ethical lapses abroad. A poll on Wednesday suggested a majority of citizens say they probably back an upcoming popular vote on whether large companies could face domestic legal proceedings, and the risk of liability and damages, if their foreign subsidiaries or suppliers abuse human rights or breach environmental standards.

Investment firm Insight Partners has acquired a majority stake in CommerceHub in a deal valuing it at $1.9 billion, according to the e-commerce company. Insight bought part of the stakes in CommerceHub that were owned by private equity firms GTCR and Sycamore Partners, which will remain investors. The Albany, New York-based company had hired Morgan Stanley to explore options, including an initial public offering. “Everything was on the table,” said Chief Executive Officer Frank Poore. CommerceHub was taken private in 2018 when it was acquired for $1.1 billion by GTCR and Sycamore Partners. Its business has grown since then, Poore said. CommerceHub helps connect retailers like Walmart Inc. and Home Depot Inc. with suppliers. The company works with more than 15,000 retailers, brands and distributors. The e-commerce surge resulting from the coronavirus pandemic has been a boon for CommerceHub, Poore said. “We’ve done exceptionally well this year,” he said, adding that about $25 billion in gross merchandise volume was transacted through CommerceHub in the past 12 months. In-store retail may take back some sales once businesses fully re-open, but not all of them, Poore predicts. “I would suspect that there will be some dip,” he said. “But I think a lot of these changes are permanent.”







Investment firm Insight Partners has acquired a majority stake in CommerceHub in a deal valuing it at $1.9 billion, according to the e-commerce company. Insight bought part of the stakes in CommerceHub that were owned by private equity firms GTCR and Sycamore Partners, which will remain investors. The Albany, New York-based company had hired Morgan Stanley to explore options, including an initial public offering. “Everything was on the table,” said Chief Executive Officer Frank Poore. CommerceHub was taken private in 2018 when it was acquired for $1.1 billion by GTCR and Sycamore Partners. Its business has grown since then, Poore said. CommerceHub helps connect retailers like Walmart Inc. and Home Depot Inc. with suppliers. The company works with more than 15,000 retailers, brands and distributors. The e-commerce surge resulting from the coronavirus pandemic has been a boon for CommerceHub, Poore said. “We’ve done exceptionally well this year,” he said, adding that about $25 billion in gross merchandise volume was transacted through CommerceHub in the past 12 months. In-store retail may take back some sales once businesses fully re-open, but not all of them, Poore predicts. “I would suspect that there will be some dip,” he said. “But I think a lot of these changes are permanent.”

Snowflake Inc., a software maker that debuted with the year’s biggest U.S. initial public offering, gave a lackluster product sales forecast for the current quarter, signaling fierce competition in cloud computing. Shares declined about 5% in extended trading. Product revenue, which makes up more than 90% of sales, will be $162 million to $167 million in the period ending in January, the San Mateo, California-based company said Wednesday in a statement. Analysts, on average, estimated $166 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.

OPEC+ was discussing a proposal to gradually ease its oil-output cuts next year, seeking to resolve divisions that emerged at the core of the cartel over several days of fractious negotiations. Talks were focused on a proposal for the cartel to add 500,000 barrels a day to the market in January, potentially to be followed by similar-sized supply hikes in subsequent months, delegates said. That would modify the current deal, which allows supply to jump by 1.9 million barrels a day from Jan. 1.

Namibia has invited offers for at least 170 elephants in the latest response by southern African nations to the increase in the animals’ numbers, which they say they are prevented from keeping in check by international pressure. The elephants will be sold in family groups. A drought has made food scarce and the rising number of elephants heightens the risk of clashes with farmers, whose crops they sometimes eat. As long as international laws are complied with, they can be exported, the Environment Ministry said in a newspaper advertisement on Wednesday.

The Philippines is jumping back into strong credit markets with what would be its second dollar bond this year, as it raises funds to counter the economic impact of the pandemic. The proceeds from the benchmark-sized offering will be used for general purposes including budgetary support, according to a person familiar with the matter who’s not authorized to speak about the matter and asked not to be identified. For more details click here.

In 2008 at least six babies died and 300,000 fell ill after drinking made-in-China infant formula tainted with toxic chemicals. In response, many Chinese parents embraced foreign brands, catapulting the likes of Danone SA’s Aptamil and Nestlé SA’s Illuma to the top of the market. Yet for the past two years, the leading formula brand in China has been made by China Feihe Ltd., a Beijing company that emphasizes its local roots rather than seeking to obscure them. “More suitable for Chinese babies,” the company’s advertising boasts. In categories ranging from baby food and bottled water to sportswear and skin cream, Chinese brands are putting pressure on global rivals that depend on the country for much of their growth. While increasing nationalism has boosted the momentum of domestic products for the past couple of years, the Covid-19  pandemic is hastening the shift. With prices typically lower than foreign brands’, domestic products have increasing appeal in times of constrained household budgets, and the growth of online sales has weakened the multinationals’ advantages in distribution and marketing. “Chinese shoppers are showing stronger confidence in local brands,” says Helen Wong of Qiming Venture Partners, which has backed local startups such as lingerie maker Neiwai and cafe chain Coffee Box. “The coronavirus is accelerating the trend as people stay home, watch livestreaming, and shop.” Investors have piled into domestic companies that are overtaking multinational rivals, doubling the combined value of China’s 500 top brands in the past four years to about $3.8 trillion, according to marketing consultancy World Brand Lab. Clothing and shoe manufacturer Anta Sports Products, which in 2018 passed Nike to become China’s No. 2 sports apparel brand behind Adidas, is up more than 50% this year even as the benchmark Hang Seng index has fallen 6%. Shares of China’s biggest bottled water brand, Nongfu Spring, have more than doubled since its September Hong Kong trading debut. Yatsen Holding, owner of cosmetics house Perfect Diary, a growing threat to the likes of L’Oréal and Estée Lauder, has jumped 75% since its U.S. initial public offering in November. Percentage-point change in market share, 2010 to 2019 Data: Euromonitor International  Local names account for seven of the top 10 cosmetics brands, up from just three in 2017, according to market researcher Daxue Consulting. L’Oréal SA’s Maybelline makeup line has seen its share in China plunge, to 9.1% last year from more than 20% in 2010, according to Euromonitor International. In the skin care and lotion category, the share of L’Oréal Paris dropped, to 4.5% last year from 5.6% in 2014, putting it neck and neck with local brand Pechoin. The growing strength of Chinese cosmetics makers can be traced to their smart online strategy, according to Derek Deng, a partner in Shanghai with Bain & Co. “Insurgent Chinese brands are more likely to be digital from Day One,” he says, while multinationals tend to favor physical stores. Perfect Diary, launched in 2017, now stands just behind several European-owned brands, with 4% of the crowded market for so-called color cosmetics such as lipstick and mascara, Euromonitor estimates. Its advertising stresses that its products come from the same manufacturers as Dior, Lancôme, and Armani but sell for less than one-third the price. It’s teamed with Mondelez International’s Oreos for a skin foundation cream (no, it doesn’t contain ground-up cookies; the box looks like an Oreo). On Singles Day, the Nov. 11  shopping palooza organized by Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., Perfect Diary’s online store included livestreams of influencers pitching products such as animal-themed eye shadow (co-branded with the Discovery Channel) featuring colors and packaging inspired by rabbits, deer, and fish. “We’ve proven we can stand out in a highly competitive market,” says David Huang, chief executive officer of Yatsen. Foreign brands aren’t finished in China, of course. They dominate categories such as high-end handbags and luxury cars. Estée Lauder Cos. sold more than 2 billion yuan ($300 million) of products on Singles Day with a livestreaming campaign, two-for-one discounts, and installment payment plans. And KFC—still the biggest fast-food chain in China—is supplementing its fried chicken with products such as fast-cooking stinky sour snail noodles to cater to diners stuck at home in the pandemic. “The attitude of big international brands is changing significantly,” says Wu Wenmi, founder of Wenzihui MCN, an agency in Hangzhou that partners with Alibaba. “They are more humble now and willing to hear our opinions of how to play the game.” One way Chinese companies are playing the game is with marketing that resonates for locals. While foreigners’ ads stress the nutritional value of their infant formula, Feihe nurtures relationships with consumers via loyalty programs, new-parent support groups, and collections of bedtime stories. And Chinese brands are increasingly tailoring their wares to domestic tastes. China Mengniu Dairy Co., for instance, is stepping up sales of innovations such as pineapple-flavored cheese and squid-infused snacks in addition to its lineup of basic milk and fruit yogurts. “Foreign brands were so innovative three decades ago when they first came to China,” Mengniu CEO Lu Minfang said at a November media briefing. “But now they’re developing slower than local brands.” —Bruce Einhorn and Daniela Wei

Iran’s top political chamber gave final approval to a bill forcing President Hassan Rouhani to end international nuclear inspections unless the U.S. lifts key sanctions by February, giving the incoming Biden administration just weeks to make a diplomatic breakthrough. The new legislation also says that Iran will immediately take measures to start producing 20% enriched uranium for peaceful purposes and increase its stockpile of the fissile material, potentially reducing the time Iran needs to make preparations to acquire a weapon.

China’s loosening of control over capital markets is being accompanied by tougher oversight of companies that previously faced little regulation. Under President Xi Jinping, authorities appear keen to push ahead with reforms to give markets greater sway. The measures will encourage inflows while making the economy leaner and more efficient, thus strengthening the country against a more hostile world. But greater opening also makes it more likely investors will pile into a small number of very profitable companies, mostly in the private sector. Such clustering could create imbalances in the financial system, as well as make some companies too powerful.

Spotify Technology SA climbed as much as 16% Wednesday to an intraday record after the Joe Rogan podcast became exclusive to its platform, and it generated buzz with a feature that lists users’ top music of 2020. “The Joe Rogan Experience” is now being marketed as an only-on-Spotify podcast, giving the company a new way to lure listeners. The show holds the top spot for the most popular podcast of the year, Spotify said on Tuesday. The company said in May that the podcast would become exclusively available on the platform later this year.

Salesforce.com Inc. Chief Operating Officer Bret Taylor said he hopes the company can go ahead with the live version of its annual Dreamforce event next year if vaccine rollouts are effective. The event, where more than 170,000 people descended on San Francisco in 2019, is the largest software conference in the world. The company held it online this year to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Taylor was speaking at the annual Web Summit tech conference, which was also held online, on Wednesday.

The Covid-19 pandemic was barely underway in the U.S. when life insurance companies started wrestling with whether to sell new policies to people who survived the virus. The Delaware Department of Insurance started seeing it in June. Companies filed requests to change their application forms to specifically ask applicants if they’d had Covid-19. The Interstate Insurance Product Regulation Commission—which uses a uniform set of standards to regulate insurance products for 44 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico—has approved 32 such requests since March. It’s also known as the Insurance Compact.

Forward oil prices once again strengthened in ways that indicate both tighter physical availability of crude, but also a brighter outlook for consumption once vaccines against Covid-19 start to take effect. The nearest December Brent futures are now trading at a higher level than the same contracts for December 2022, surging to the highest premium since February on Thursday. The structure, known as backwardation, signals expectations for a tighter supply-demand balance next year. That can be seen in the marked flattening of the oil futures curve over recent weeks.

When out in search of crazy ideas that might just change the world, Nancy Pfund—founder and managing partner of DBL Partners and an  early Tesla Inc. investor—sometimes runs across plain-old crazy ideas. Then there was the idea behind Better Place Forests, which protects privately owned trees from becoming casualties of future development by offering them as burial sites, where loved ones’ cremated remains help fertilize living, growing things. “We’ve seen some unusual pitches in our time,” Pfund said of her team’s initial 2016 meeting with the company. “And this one was way out there.”

Lyft Inc. lowered its outlook for fourth-quarter growth after demand for rides plunged 50% in November due to a resurgence in Covid-19 cases across the U.S. As a result of the uptick in cases and the reintroduction of restrictive measures designed to curtail the spread of the coronavirus in some cities, Lyft said it now expects sequential revenue growth will be at the low end of the 11% to 15% range it had predicted last month.

XPO Logistics Inc. is cleaving its trucking and logistics businesses into separate publicly traded companies, almost a year after saying it was looking for strategic alternatives. The spinoff will occur as a tax-free transaction to shareholders, the Greenwich, Connecticut-based company said in a statement Wednesday. One company will focus on less-than-truckload hauling and transportation brokerage services, with current XPO Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Brad Jacobs remaining in those positions. The other operation will be the world’s second-largest contract logistics company, according to the statement.

One of the year’s biggest spikes in Treasury yields has investors mapping out the impact of rising rates on markets ranging from stocks to corporate bonds. Renewed optimism about U.S. stimulus talks pushed the benchmark 10-year yield to a high of 0.96% on Wednesday, a move which if continued could spark a domino effect across risk assets trading at all-time highs thanks to low interest rates. At issue is whether the jump in yields is accompanied by an economic recovery and moderate levels of inflation that would allow the Federal Reserve to keep rates low.

Goldman Sachs Group Inc. named John Mallory and Meena Flynn as co-heads of global private wealth management, a business that’s key to the bank’s aim to diversify revenue streams beyond its core strengths of dealmaking and trading. The changes take effect Jan. 1, the firm said in a memo Wednesday. Mallory is currently head of Americas Private Wealth Management, while Flynn leads the global Markets Solutions Group.

Indonesia cut short its year-end holiday as the country continues to grapple with Southeast Asia’s worst coronavirus outbreak. The government shortened the break by three weekdays, setting only Dec. 24-25 and Dec. 31-Jan. 1 as public holidays, compared with a previously planned 11-day stretch. That comes after a long weekend in October led to a spike in confirmed cases shortly afterward.

President-elect Joe Biden is preparing to announce several of his administration’s health leaders as soon as next week as he considers two governors and a former surgeon general to lead the Department of Health and Human Services, according to people familiar with the matter. The candidates to lead HHS include Rhode Island Governor Gina Raimondo, New Mexico Governor Michelle Lujan Grisham and former Surgeon General Vivek Murthy, now a co-chair of the Biden transition’s coronavirus advisory board.

Makram Azar, formerly a senior Barclays Plc banker, is setting up a blank-check company with dealmaker Scott Freidheim to pursue deals in the telecommunication, media and technology sectors. Golden Falcon Acquisition Corp. filed Tuesday to raise $250 million through an initial public offering. The special purpose acquisition company, or SPAC, will target companies headquartered in Europe, Israel, the Middle East or North America, according to the filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.

Sales of digital games fell 10% year-over-year between Black Friday and Cyber Monday, largely the result of shortages of new consoles from Microsoft Corp. and Sony Corp., according to research firm SuperData. Many gamers appear to be waiting to buy the new Xbox and PlayStation consoles before purchasing titles, SuperData said Wednesday. Console-game revenue fell 13% during the typically strong sales weekend, though gains in PC games helped offset the decline. Overall game spending is still on track for a record in 2020, the firm said.

Salesforce.com Inc.’s $27.7 billion takeover of Slack Technologies Inc. represents co-founder Marc Benioff’s most aggressive effort yet to challenge reigning software maker Microsoft Corp. The cash-and-stock deal, announced Tuesday and expected to close by July, will bring a workplace-communications application that’s grown more popular during the coronavirus pandemic to Salesforce’s ever-expanding platform. In the process, the app maker will come into greater conflict with the world’s largest software company, which offers a competing product named Teams. The purchase of Slack, an existing partner with less than $1 billion in annual revenue, fulfills Benioff’s long-held goal to make Salesforce’s software relevant to a broad swath of corporate employees, beyond the marketers and account representatives who log on to the company’s programs each day. At stake is the chance for Salesforce, a maker of cloud-based apps for managing customer relationships, to elevate itself to the very top of the software industry. Benioff has what he calls a “$50 billion dream” for Salesforce’s annual revenue, which would surpass every maker of business applications short of Microsoft. The chairman and chief executive officer, who has been the overseer or architect of more than 60 deals since his company’s start in 1999, is getting something he has sought for more than a decade -- a transformational communications asset. He’s also further cementing Salesforce as Microsoft’s chief rival in business applications. “This moment is one we will remember a couple decades from now,” Slack CEO Stewart Butterfield said Wednesday during an appearance at Salesforce’s annual user conference. He likened the deal to the debut of Microsoft’s Windows 95 and the emergence of the cloud. “This is a pivotal moment and the opportunity to really transform the way that we work so we’re not relying on the physical office, so we can have a digital HQ,” Butterfield said. Salesforce investors, however, were skeptical of the deal and the company’s stock fell 8.6% to $220.57 at 3:05 pm in New York. Analysts questioned the high price and necessity of the takeover, which came amid slowing revenue growth. The stock had climbed 48% this year through Tuesday’s close. Read more: Salesforce Agrees to Buy Software Maker Slack for $27.7 Billion The transaction, which is Salesforce’s priciest and one of the biggest acquisitions this year, isn’t something Benioff had planned to do during the pandemic. But he said the deal could reshape the software landscape and projected bravado that Salesforce had met its moment. “We’re going to help them to just redefine the entire industry,” Benioff said of Slack during a conference call with analysts. “When the moment and the opportunity arises, you have to look and ask yourself, are you strong? Can you do something like this? Or are you weak? Or is it a moment where you just don’t have the swagger? And let’s face it. Look at these numbers we just delivered. Salesforce has never been stronger, never been more capable, it’s never had a more competitive position.” Microsoft’s Teams product, which hosts videoconferences, offers a workplace chatroom and provides automation tools, is a top competitor to Slack. Salesforce will inherit the rivalry, which has grown acrimonious, with Slack complaining about Microsoft to regulators. Salesforce and Microsoft themselves have had a turbulent relationship in the past several years. Benioff was one of the first rivals Satya Nadella forged closer ties with when he took over as Microsoft CEO in 2014, but the executives’ relationship fractured in 2016 when Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft acquired the social network for professionals, LinkedIn. Nadella beat Benioff to the asset and reinforced Microsoft’s intention to compete fiercely with Salesforce’s main business. LinkedIn would have complemented Salesforce’s sales-tracking product and boosted its profile. The San Francisco-based company unsuccessfully urged European nations to block the Microsoft-LinkedIn deal on antitrust grounds. The freeze thawed somewhat last year when Salesforce and Microsoft signed a new cloud partnership. Now another acquisition, this one by Salesforce, adds a new dimension to the rivalry. “Slack is probably a bigger threat to Microsoft in some ways than Salesforce is because Slack’s use case hits at the heart of Microsoft’s information worker’s productivity suite,” said Gregg Johnson, a former Salesforce executive and the CEO of Invoca Inc., which uses artificial intelligence to help businesses track and analyze customer conversations. “That’s like the jewels in the crown of Microsoft. Dominating the information worker is how Microsoft has printed money for 25 years.” That market dominance explains why Microsoft has been so “aggressive” in rolling out Teams, he added. In July, Slack asked European Union antitrust regulators to probe Microsoft, claiming it unfairly foists Teams software on millions of users by distributing it for free with its Office cloud product suite. Read more: Slack is Gossipy Email That Plays Into All Our Bad Habits Microsoft entered Slack’s business in 2017 after considering an acquisition of Slack and opting instead to build Teams. As of Oct. 28, Teams had 115 million daily active users, up from 75 million in April. Slack has said it has a different way to define a daily active user than Microsoft, and prefers to disclose usage metrics that highlight engagement. In March, the company said more than 12.5 million people were using its app simultaneously, which was a record. “Everyone is feeling Microsoft’s dominance in the space,” Daniel Elman, an analyst at Nucleus Research, said in an interview. “This deal is going to help Slack grow in a way it hasn’t before.” Benioff’s company and Microsoft already compete in the market for software that salespeople use to manage their deal pipelines. Microsoft’s offering is called Dynamics 365. They also vie for clients trying to improve productivity with Microsoft’s Office 365 and Salesforce’s Quip, an acquired product that is a market laggard. Salesforce’s last record deal, about $15 billion for Tableau last year, was an attempt to go toe-to-toe with Microsoft in analytics software and business intelligence. In effect, Salesforce has been encircling its larger foe, replicating its footprint to tap into greater growth opportunities. So far, the strategy has been effective. Salesforce projected that its revenue could reach as much as $25.6 billion in the next fiscal year, almost double the company’s performance in the fiscal year that ended about two years ago. “With Tableau, Salesforce could sell to more general data analysts,” Elman said. “Slack takes it to a whole other level. Everyone in an organization can use Slack.” While Slack has grown steadily during the pandemic, its share price has gained modestly relative to peers this year because of weak billings from small and mid-sized clients and concern about the amount of traction that Microsoft Teams was gaining. Salesforce Chief Operating Officer Bret Taylor organized the deal with Slack’s Butterfield before pitching Benioff on the idea. “What’s very exciting is this vision that Stewart and Bret have put together,” Benioff said in a conference call. “It’s a wow.” Taylor, who sold his company, Quip, to Salesforce, said Slack will be deeply integrated with the app maker’s software suite to help its customers’ employees. “It really is about facilitating this all-digital, work-from-anywhere world, to enable team selling, to enable people in a contact center to swarm on a case digitally whether or not you’re in the same building, to enable marketers to plan a campaign,” Taylor said. This pitch aligns with Benioff’s goal for his company to play a big role in office communications -- an ambition that has so far failed to materialize. The same year that Slack was founded, in 2009, Salesforce debuted a similar tool called Chatter at its annual user conference. A messaging platform, Chatter features groups that are like Slack channels, with comment threads and file-sharing capabilities. Salesforce bought a Super Bowl ad in 2011 that featured a cartoon version of recording artist Will.i.am trying to get viewers to go to chatter.com, with a requisite cameo from Fergie. Salesforce would include a version of Chatter with every user license, but a decade later, the service hasn’t spurred much conversation. “Marc has always had a vision for having Salesforce ultimately touch all employees in a company, not just people in sales, service and marketing,” said Johnson, who served as vice president of product management for Chatter from 2010 to 2013. “We never achieved that goal with Chatter. Chatter was still largely a tool for sales, service and marketing users, whereas Slack has achieved mass-market adoption across every department of a company.” Salesforce and Slack said that once their combination is complete, they’ll “create the operating system for the new way to work,” which sounded like a veiled reference to Microsoft, maker of the most popular operating system for personal computers. — With assistance by Dina Bass

Eat Just Inc., a maker of meat and egg substitutes, has been approved to sell its laboratory-created chicken in Singapore, which becomes the first government to allow the sale of cultured meat. The product, created from animal cells without the slaughter of any chickens, will debut in Singapore under the GOOD Meat brand as a chicken bite with breading and seasoning in a single restaurant. Eat Just is initially working with local manufacturer the Food Innovation and Resource Centre to make the cultured chicken. Additionally, the company is buying more equipment to expand sales to other restaurants -- and eventually grocery stores.

Coking coal prices in China have soared to a four-year high after a new Covid-19 outbreak slowed border crossings from Mongolia. Trucks carrying coal across the border have fallen by about 80% since October amid efforts to control the virus as hundreds of new cases arise in Mongolia, according to analysts with Hexun Futures. The slowdown comes after China barred imports from its other top coking coal supplier, Australia.

Westdale Real Estate Investment and Management has approached Apartment Investment & Management Co. with an all-cash takeover proposal, people familiar with the matter said.  The unsolicited offer for Aimco is at a premium to the real estate investment trust’s market value of about $4.7 billion before the approach was revealed, the people said, asking not to be identified as the matter is private. The target has not yet responded to the proposal, which was made last week, the people said.

Sign up to our Next Africa newsletter and  follow Bloomberg Africa on Twitter Ugandan presidential candidate Bobi Wine suspended his campaign after police fired rubber bullets and teargas to prevent him from attending a rally and injured some of his aides, the Daily Monitor reported.

Royal Bank of Canada is benefiting from a boom in trading activity as investors navigate pandemic-roiled markets, helping sustain surging profits in the company’s capital-markets business. Net income in the unit climbed to C$840 million ($649 million) in the fiscal fourth quarter, helping the company post earnings that beat analysts’ estimates. The business’s 44% increase from a year earlier was the second straight quarter of strong earnings gains, after they rose 45% in the third quarter.

Discovery Inc., the owner of cable channels such as HGTV, TLC and Animal Planet, is launching a new streaming service, betting that unscripted shows about romance, food and home improvement will stand out in a crowded market. The new service, called Discovery+, will launch Jan. 4, the company said Wednesday. A subscription with advertising will cost $4.99 a month in the U.S., while an ad-free version will be priced at $6.99.

Japan’s parliament passed a bill to provide coronavirus vaccinations free of charge with the central government covering the cost, offering a key plan to stem the virus as the country struggles with its worst-yet wave of infections. Wednesday’s passage in the upper house of parliament following approval in the more powerful lower house will bring the law into effect. It also makes local governments responsible for administering the immunizations, according to the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare.

Former Ghanaian President John Mahama said he’ll spend $10 billion on infrastructure over the next five years if he defeats the incumbent in elections next week. Mahama plans to build roads, dams and schools, and extend an airport and hospital, should he defeat President Nana Akufo-Addo in the Dec. 7 vote, he said in an interview Wednesday. The West African nation is the world’s second-biggest producer of cocoa after Ivory Coast, and Mahama will work to ensure half its output is processed domestically, compared with 38% now.

Pennsylvania Republicans who sued to block additional steps to certify the state’s election results claim there’s a “reasonable possibility” the U.S. Supreme Court will take up their long-shot appeal and a “fair prospect” the justices will rule in their favor. Republican plaintiffs led by U.S. Representative Mike Kelly on Wednesday asked the Pennsylvania Supreme Court to grant an emergency delay of its ruling allowing state officials to complete their certification of results in favor of President-elect Joe Biden and other candidates. They said the status quo needed to be preserved while they try to appeal their case to the U.S. Supreme Court.

U.S. stocks retreated from record highs just before the close of trading to finish little changed after a report briefly spurred confusion over the Covid vaccine roll out.  The S&P 500 ended in the red, while the Nasdaq Composite managed to close at an all-time high. The benchmark S&P spent most of the session at a record before a report that identified supply chain problems behind a previously disclosed slowdown in Pfizer Inc.’s production plans for its vaccine. Sentiment also weakened after California said it will lock down its economy if critical-care units reach capacity. Small caps outperformed as the reopening rotation continued.

Arizona Democrat Mark Kelly was sworn in to the U.S. Senate Wednesday afternoon, shrinking the Republican majority and likely dooming President Donald Trump’s nomination of Judy Shelton to the Federal Reserve. Republicans now hold a 52-48 majority in the chamber. Since three Republicans oppose Shelton and no Democrats support her, any hope of confirming her this year depends on enough of those senators being absent. Trump could nominate Shelton again next year, but the new Congress would have just a few legislative days to act before Trump leaves office Jan. 20.

Germany is conducting direct negotiations with domestic Covid-19 vaccine developers to obtain more doses than would be allocated through the shared European Union plan, Health Minister Jens Spahn said. The country is in talks with BioNTech SE, Pfizer Inc.’s partner on the first vaccine approved in a Western country against the virus, as well as CureVac NV and IDT Biologika GmbH, Spahn said Wednesday. All three German companies received funding through a government program to support Covid vaccine development.

Slovak police detained the country’s second-richest man, Jaroslav Hascak, marking the most influential private-sector catch in the government’s anti-corruption crusade. The detention of the founding partner of Penta Investments, a private-equity group that valued its assets at 11.2 billion euros ($13.5 billion) last year, follows a series of high-profile arrests in recent weeks under Prime Minister Igor Matovic, who won the February elections with an anti-graft campaign.

Singapore needs to raise its auditing and accounting standards to help boost the nation’s ESG credibility following a series of corporate scandals, according to the country’s top central banker. “There have been several failures that are due to lapses in accounting, auditing, and some fraudulent activities are not as easily detected,” said Ravi Menon, head of the Monetary Authority of Singapore and the country’s financial regulator. “It is an area that needs to be addressed.”

European Union chief Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier told ambassadors from the bloc in a private meeting on Wednesday that the three main obstacles to a trade deal with the U.K. remain unresolved, according to an official with knowledge of the meeting. The three topics -- the level playing field for business, access to British fishing waters and how the overall agreement is enforced -- have been longstanding problems. Barnier said he couldn’t guarantee that there will be a deal. The pound fell on the news.

The White House again claimed credit for the rapid development of coronavirus immunizations, with the president’s top spokesperson on Wednesday branding the forthcoming shots as the “Trump vaccine.” White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany told reporters it is a “tremendous achievement” for the U.S. to have as many as 40 million vaccine doses ready by year’s end, crediting the accomplishment to Donald Trump’s background in the business world.

Sotheby’s has refinanced its historic London auction house following its acquisition by French billionaire Patrick Drahi’s BidFair last year. The company has secured a 150 million pound loan ($200 million) to refinance the property at 34-35 New Bond St. in the city’s Mayfair district, a person familiar with the financing said. The loan was provided by Prima Capital Advisors, the person said, asking not to be identified as the transaction is not yet public.

The following are the highlights of an interview with European Central Bank Governing Council member Martins Kazaks conducted on Nov. 30. Click here to read the Bloomberg story. “There is now a very clear understanding that what we’re dealing with is not one single wave of the pandemic, but we are dealing with consecutive waves.”

President Donald Trump is trying to “seize” Wisconsin’s 10 electoral votes through a bogus lawsuit after losing the state to President-elect Joe Biden, Governor Tony Evers said in a court filing hours after being sued. Trump and his re-election campaign have asked the Wisconsin Supreme Court to reverse the certification of Biden’s victory in the state, claiming that more than 200,000 mail-in ballots were illegally counted. The attempt to overturn the will of the voters is an “assault on democracy,” Evers, a Democrat, said in a filing responding to the suit late Tuesday.

Historians and watchdog groups sued the Trump administration again over its alleged failure to preserve White House records. “With President Trump’s term in office soon coming to an end,” the White House’s flouting of record-keeping requirements could deprive historians and the public “of records documenting a critical part of our nation’s history,” the groups said in a complaint filed Tuesday in federal court in Washington.

Heather Boushey, named by President-elect Joe Biden as a member of his Council of Economic Advisers, was criticized on Tuesday by a former employee who alleged she was pushed out of her job after publishing a blog post that Boushey didn’t like. Claudia Sahm, a former Federal Reserve economist, worked at the Washington Center for Equitable Growth that Boushey leads but left the position in October, two months after publishing a viral blog post that claimed racist, sexist and elitist harassment in the economics field.

Luxury-car maker Bentley Motors Ltd. has put cargo planes on standby and the French owner of Vauxhall is resigned to unavoidable disruptions as automakers brace for time to run out for a Brexit deal. The two automakers with major U.K. manufacturing operations described how their industry is girding for the worst outcome as bureaucrats try to strike an agreement that determines whether cars and parts traded with the European Union are subject to tariffs.

The Thanksgiving shopping period confirmed what many following the U.S. retail industry predicted: a move toward online purchases amid surging coronavirus cases. The breakdown between in-store and online segments showed the latter’s share of spending for the Thursday-to-Monday period grew more than eight percentage points to 35.2% from last year, the most in Numerator figures to 2014. The consumer-data researcher found Amazon.com Inc. to be the biggest beneficiary, accounting for 17.8% of total outlays.

European banking regulators, seeking to soften the blow from the second wave of Covid-19, are giving borrowers more time to seek payment holidays on troubled loans. The European Banking Authority, which coordinates rules across the bloc, said it’s reactivating policies that lapsed at the end of September that have already allowed borrowers to freeze repayments on 871 billion euros ($1.05 trillion). Under the new policy through March, banks can suspend or delay payments for borrowers for nine months.

New Zealand’s parliament declared a climate emergency Wednesday, passing a motion tabled by Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern that calls on the nation to take responsibility for future generations and its South Pacific neighbors. While the declaration is a symbolic statement, it shows that tackling the climate crisis is an important part of the government’s agenda. It records “our intent as a nation” and “acts as a catalyst for change,” Ardern said in a speech in parliament.

Sign up to receive the Green Daily newsletter in your inbox every weekday. A recurring theme at the two-day Bloomberg Sustainable Business Summit was almost continuous calls from bankers, academics and at least one chief executive officer for better corporate disclosures on climate change.

India’s top court has rejected Vedanta Ltd.’s petition to restart for three months its shuttered copper smelter. The Supreme Court will review the plea to resume operations at the facility in the southern Tamil Nadu state in detail next year and decide if plant can be allowed to restart or shut permanently, a three-judge bench said in an interim order Wednesday.

Talks between Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s administration and tens of thousands of Indian farmers protesting against a set of new agricultural laws appear to have hit a deadlock with leaders insisting that the laws need to be scrapped. Both sides are expected to meet again Thursday but any immediate resolution remains unlikely. Initial talks between several senior ministers and protest leaders ended Tuesday with farmers rejecting the government offer of setting up a panel to look into their demands, federal Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar told reporters in New Delhi.

European stocks erased earlier declines over renewed worries over Brexit talks as energy and mining shares surged. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index closed down less than 0.1%. The benchmark trimmed a loss of as much as 0.6% as miners surged after Brazilian iron ore giant Vale SA lowered its output guidance and oil majors jumped.

The U.K. is looking for a site to develop a prototype power plant that will use nuclear fusion, with completion slated for 2040. The Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy has asked local governments around the country to submit bids to host the Spherical Tokamak for Energy Production project, also known as STEP.

Chubb Ltd. named John Keogh as president, in a move that Chief Executive Officer Evan Greenberg says is designed to highlight his “critical importance” to the insurer. Keogh, 56, will retain his role as chief operating officer and continue to report to Greenberg, Chubb said Wednesday in a statement. Keogh’s duties will also remain the same.

A rally in global electric-vehicle makers that pushed the stocks to multiyear highs fizzled after growth prospects for some startups came into question. Shares of Workhorse Group Inc. tumbled as much 25% Wednesday, leading the sector lower, after reports that the U.S. Postal Service further delayed a contract for new mail trucks. The company, which is working on making commercial vehicles for use in last-mile deliveries, was considered among the frontrunners for the bid.

Thailand reported six new coronavirus cases among people who illegally entered the country from neighboring Myanmar, prompting authorities to warn of criminal charges against anyone sneaking into the Southeast Asian nation and skipping the mandatory quarantine. The new infections reported late Wednesday brought local cases to 10 in the past week alone, and Thailand’s total to 4,032, official data showed. The new cases were all found in Thai women who had ties to the same entertainment venue in Myanmar as the four previously confirmed patients, the health ministry said in a statement.

Okta Inc. gave a revenue forecast for the current quarter that topped analysts’ estimates, signaling steady demand for its identity software while corporate employees log on to work from home during the pandemic. Sales will be as much as $222 million in the period ending in January, the San Francisco-based company said Wednesday in a statement. Analysts, on average, estimated $216.7 million, according the data compiled by Bloomberg. In the current fiscal year, Okta raised its projected revenue to as much as $823 million from a previous high of $803 million.

SoftBank Group Corp. is quietly winding down its controversial derivatives strategy after a sustained backlash from investors, according to people familiar with the matter. The Japanese conglomerate is letting its options expire, instead of maintaining its positions, the people said, who declined to speak publicly. About 90% of the contracts will close out by the end of December because they are short-term, according to one of the people. SoftBank will hold on to its underlying portfolio of big tech stocks, which included Amazon.com Inc. and Facebook Inc., the person said.

Mortgage investors will carry unpleasant memories of this year’s surging prepayment speeds, yet as the calendar flips there appears little chance of near-term relief. The 30-year mortgage rate is at 2.72%, a record low, and for the most credit-worthy borrowers the rate is oftentimes even less. This has driven prepayment speeds on Fannie Mae 30-year mortgage bonds 117% higher year-to-date -- their fastest since at least 2004. Speeds on Ginnie Mae 30-year bonds have increased 52% over the same time frame, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.

Welcome to Thursday, Asia. Here’s the latest news and analysis from Bloomberg Economics to help you start the day:

United Parcel Service Inc. is temporarily restricting some packages it takes from big retailers such as Nike Inc., Gap Inc. and L.L. Bean Inc. as online orders spur record deliveries ahead of the holidays. The courier told its drivers to limit pickups of parcels from those retailers and three others, according to an internal memo seen by Bloomberg News. The restrictions apply to packages that surpass volumes that were previously negotiated between UPS and the shippers, according to a person familiar with the matter.

White House chief of staff Mark Meadows plans to meet with FDA Commissioner Stephen Hahn for second time in two days on Wednesday, as President Donald Trump continues to push regulators to quickly issue emergency authorization for a coronavirus vaccine. The meeting -- described by three people familiar with the plans who requested anonymity because it has not been announced -- comes after the U.K. this week became the first Western country to approve a Covid-19 vaccine, with its regulator clearing Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE’s shot.

Steven Cohen is consolidating the systematic operations of his $19 billion hedge fund firm and one of its most prominent executives will exit after five years. Cohen is moving his Fusion quantitative portfolio into Point72 Asset Management’s computer trading business, Cubist Systematic Strategies, according to a memo to employees Wednesday. Matthew Granade, who oversaw Fusion, will leave along with his deputy.

India’s equity benchmark edged lower from yesterday’s record high as investors assessed the outlook for further gains. The S&P BSE Sensex slipped 0.1% at the close, after swinging between intraday gains and losses. NSE Nifty 50 Index was little changed, as about two shares rose for each one that fell. Both measures yesterday closed at new peaks.

PayPal Holdings Inc. Chief Executive Officer Dan Schulman said the use of digital currencies is set to go mainstream as more merchants take a “digital first” approach to payments. “The entire world is going to come into digital first,” Schulman said at the Web Summit conference on Wednesday. Shops are moving to accept payments via smartphones and QR codes, even in-store, and more customers are starting to use digital wallets, which “are natural complements to digital currencies.”

Former Trump campaign lawyer Sidney Powell’s attempt to force Georgia officials to allow a forensic examination of voting machines that she claims are central to a vast and implausible election fraud conspiracy will get an expedited review from the federal appeals court in Atlanta. Powell appealed after a judge declined to immediately grant her request for a temporary restraining order forcing audits of Georgia’s Dominion Voting Systems Inc. machines, which she claims have ties to “communist money” and the late Venezuelan dictator Hugo Chavez. The court on Wednesday granted her emergency motion to expedite briefings on whether it will even hear the case at such an early stage.

Welcome to Wednesday, Europe. Here’s the latest news and analysis from Bloomberg Economics to help you start the day:

European Central Bank policy maker Martins Kazaks said an expansion of the institution’s emergency bond-buying program by 500 billion euros ($603 billion) would be “reasonable” and he’s ready to support an extension until mid 2022. The resurgence of the coronavirus pandemic in the euro area and the likely negative impact on economic growth next year mean that the ECB needs to continue to provide support, the governor of Latvia’s central bank said in an interview from Riga. Officials are set to decide on how to boost stimulus on Dec. 10.

Qantas Airways Ltd. expects to start repairing its finances within months and said it’s upbeat about a recovery after a rebound in sales on the airline’s domestic network. Qantas will fly the vast majority of its normal domestic schedule next quarter after major state borders inside Australia reopened, it said Thursday. By June, the airline will be generating enough cash to begin fixing its balance sheet, it said.

The boost truck fuel demand is getting from booming consumer goods imports into California is spreading to the Rocky Mountains as the freight heads to the East Coast. In a sign that another bright spot for diesel is emerging with the surge in U.S. online shopping, Magellan Midstream Partners LP is expanding a truck loading terminal in Wyoming to serve rising freight traffic on Interstate 80.

President-elect Joe Biden endorsed a $908 billion stimulus proposal by a bipartisan group of lawmakers, saying it “wouldn’t be the answer” but would provide immediate relief to those suffering from the Covid recession. Biden, speaking to a virtual roundtable of workers and small-business owners affected by the virus-related downturn, called on Congress Wednesday to pass a robust Covid-relief bill in the lame-duck session, which he said would “at best only be a down payment” on a more comprehensive bill once he takes office.

Chancellor Angela Merkel said Germany will extend its partial lockdown by three more weeks into next year as the country struggles to regain control of the coronavirus spread. Bars, gyms and cinemas will remain closed until Jan. 10 and the government will reconvene with regional leaders on Jan. 4 to reassess the restrictions, Merkel said late Wednesday after talks with the premiers of Germany’s 16 states.

The maker of LaCroix sparkling water is giving billionaire Chairman Nick Caporella a $205 million Christmas present in the form of a special dividend. National Beverage Corp. said Wednesday that it’s increasing a previously announced dividend to $6 a share, twice as much as originally planned. The company cited the economic hardship brought by Covid and a desire to reward “loyal shareholders,” though most of the payout stands to go to Caporella, who owns about three-quarters of the stock.

Peru President Francisco Sagasti’s pledge to smooth ties with congress is coming under strain just two days before his cabinet faces an inaugural vote of confidence. His interior minister, Ruben Vargas, quit Wednesday following criticism from lawmakers over a purge of top police officials.

In the middle of a takeover battle between two Swedish property titans, an asset manager in the country has just set up a credit fund to bet against the sector. Strand Corporate Bond Fund will hold an “underweight” position on Sweden’s real-estate industry, according to its co-managers Mari Fors Rhenman and Carl Johan Lagercrantz of Strand Kapitalforvaltning AB.

Virta Health, a telehealth startup that aims to help people manage diabetes with frequent monitoring and dietary counseling, has raised $65 million from investors including Sequoia Capital Global Equities. The new funding round values the company at about $1.1 billion, Chief Executive Officer Sami Inkinen said. With the latest investment, six-year-old Virta has raised $231 million in equity.

As they celebrated Britain becoming the first western nation to approve a coronavirus vaccine, Boris Johnson and his ministers found themselves in yet another row over Brexit. Britain beat the U.S. and the European Union in authorizing the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine on Wednesday -- described by Health Secretary Matt Hancock as a “triumph for humanity.”

Canadian airlines haven’t gotten much of what they asked for from Justin Trudeau during the pandemic. With airports nearly empty, they’re now pinning their hopes on a testing experiment to convince the prime minister to relax some of the world’s strictest Covid-19 travel rules. A new program in the western province of Alberta is testing international travelers for the virus on arrival. Participants who receive a negative result are allowed to get back to a near-normal life in about two days, though a second test is required several days later. Everyone else entering Canada must quarantine for 14 days, a rule that has not changed since March.

The U.S. economic recovery remained moderate across much of the country, and showed signs of a slowdown in areas where coronavirus cases are particularly high, according to a Federal Reserve report. Most districts characterized the economic expansion as “modest or moderate,” the central bank said in its Beige Book survey released Wednesday in Washington.

A band of 30 finance executives sat in silence on the ice, their eyes closed. With no sound but the Arctic wind and the occasional creaking of snow boots, some began to weep as they contemplated the consequences of global warming—both for the glaciers around them  and the entire world. This unusual subzero meditation was a defining moment in an expedition aimed at connecting executives from the biggest Dutch banks, insurers, and fund managers with the devastating realities of climate change. Anita de Horde, a sustainable finance manager who together with a polar explorer led the 2018 voyage to the Svalbard archipelago between Norway and the North Pole, says the financial sector has a responsibility to act—and the resources to do so.

The Philippines expects to start administering coronavirus vaccines as early as the first quarter of next year, pinning its hopes on China and Russia as its own procurement policies hamper efforts for early access. The best-case scenario is to start inoculations next quarter using shots from China’s Sinovac Biotech Ltd. and Russia’s Sputnik V, vaccine czar Carlito Galvez said at a virtual briefing in Manila on Wednesday. Sinovac has pledged to ship vaccines to the Philippines at least 60 days after a deal is signed, he said.

The U.K.’s quick approval of the Covid vaccine from Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE means Britons will get first dibs on a shot developed in two other countries -- the U.S. and Germany. Britain’s drug regulator on Wednesday cleared the vaccine for emergency use, ahead of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and its European Union counterpart. The government cited a rule allowing the U.K. to authorize a shot independently before the end of the Brexit transition period on Dec. 31. An accelerated review process in which regulators were able to monitor Pfizer’s trial data in real time also helped.

Bonds from South Korean issuers are benefiting from their safe haven status as some investors turn away from Chinese debt after a spate of defaults. Yield premiums on Korean corporate dollar notes tightened 17 basis points in the past month, while spreads on high-grade debt from Chinese issuers sold in the U.S. currency increased 3 basis points, Bloomberg Barclays indexes show. Korean bonds are also outperforming the Asian regional index.

Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said he has spoken with his presumed successor, Janet Yellen, about ending several Federal Reserve emergency coronavirus lending facilities, a decision that’s drawing criticism from Democrats. “We are cooperating with the transition,” he said Wednesday in response to a question during a House Financial Services hearing. “I had a very good working relationship with her when she was the Fed chair.”



































